AGENDA ITEM:        Consideration of Approval of Accepting the Proposal/ Service Agreement from
                    New Focus HR LLC for Complete Redesign and Development of a Legally
                    Compliant Employee Handbook and Continuing Human Resources Consultation
                    Services.
SUBMITTED BY:       Samira Vetter, Town Clerk


DATE:               June 10, 2025


BACKGROUND:         I had a meeting with Kristen Deutsch of New Focus HR on May 21st to discuss
                    the Town’s needs from an HR perspective. This agreement provides us with a
                    new, collaborative and fully National and State compliant Employee Handbook,
                    and thereafter keeps it fully updated.

                    It will also provide me with HR professionals to consult on any issues that may
                    arise as I continue training in my HR role, to ensure that the Town of Paonia
                    provides the best possible working environment for its staff. New Focus HR also
                    has experience with municipalities, which I can attest to being EXTREMELY
                    helpful, having worked with quite a few services who aren’t very familiar with
                    the way we are required to do things.




BUDGET:             $7,500.00 one time for Employee Handbook
                    $150.00/year for update subscription service
                    $175.00/hr for HR Consultation Services

                To approve the Proposal/Agreement for Services with New Focus HR LLC for
RECOMMENDATION: creation of an employee Handbook, update subscription and HR Consulting
                Services.




ATTACHMENT:         Consulting Proposal from New Focus HR LLC
                    Sole Source Justification email




                                                                                           Page 110 of 126
                      Town of Paonia, Colorado



        Proposal/Agreement for Services

                                for

                      HR Consulting Services

                               from




Date: May 23, 2025
Version: 1.0




         05/23/2025                            CONFIDENTIAL

                                                          Page 111 of 126
Table of Contents

 Table of Contents ............................................................................................................................ 1
 Project Overview .......................................................................................................................... 2-3
 Cost Summary and Signatures ...................................................................................................... 4
 Attachment A - Terms and Conditions ....................................................................................... 5-8
 Consultant’s Biographies ........................................................................................................... 9-10
 References .................................................................................................................................... 11




              05/21/2025                                                       1                                                                  CONFIDENTIAL




                                                                                                                                                      Page 112 of 126
Project Overview

The Town of Paonia has requested the services of New Focus HR, LLC with regards to various
human resources challenges that they are trying to resolve within their organization. New Focus
HR, LLC has prepared the following project outline based on our current understanding of the
needs of the Town of Paonia. If changes to the project scope should change, New Focus HR, LLC
will prepare a change letter detailing out any resulting impact on deliverables or fees.

The Design and Development of a Legally Compliant Employee Handbook
The process will include, but may not be limited to the following steps:
   • The HR Consultant will take the current employee handbook, HR-related policies and
       procedures and complete an employee handbook questionnaire with the Town
       Administrator and Treasurer, the Clerk, or their designee, either during an in-person
       meeting or via a Zoom video conference to use as a starting point to create a draft of a
       new employee handbook for the Town of Paonia.
   • The HR Consultant will create and review the new draft of the employee handbook for
       changes, modifications, etc. before presenting to the Town Administrator and Treasurer,
       the Clerk, or their designee for review.
   • The HR Consultant and the Town Administrator and Treasurer, the Clerk, or their
       designee will meet either during an in-person meeting or via a Zoom video conference so
       that the HR Consultant may explain the draft of the employee handbook and those
       policies that are required by federal and state employment-related laws and the National
       Labor Relations Act (NLRA) guidelines, as well as those policies that are recommended
       based upon the HR Consultant’s expertise in the human resources field.
   • The Town Administrator and Treasurer, the Clerk, or their designee, will take the draft to
       review for final changes, elimination of policies that are not required or appropriate for the
       organization, etc. and communicate those changes, etc. to the HR Consultant.
   • Once those changes are received by the HR Consultant the final electronic ADOBE copy
       will be forwarded to the Town of Paonia for their utilization and records.
   • As part of this process the Town of Paonia will receive a progressive disciplinary action
       form that goes along with Policy #716 – Progressive Discipline in the employee
       handbook.
   • It will be up to the Town of Paonia to distribute the employee handbook to their
       employees and obtain a signed acknowledgment form from each. The HR Consultant
       may be available to assist with this process, if needed. (Consulting hourly rates apply
       equal to $175 per hour.)

Annual Employee Handbook Update Subscription Service
New Focus HR will provide the Town of Paonia with ongoing support and continued compliance
updates and amendments to federal and state employment-related laws and NLRA guidelines that
impact policies as necessary. In addition, the Town of Paonia may add organization-related polices or
change policies as needed and New Focus HR will provide amendments as appropriate. The Town
Administrator and Treasurer, the Clerk, or their designee may also contact the HR Consultant at any
time during the year to discuss interpretation of any policy within the employee handbook. This is an
added value in that the Town of Paonia will always have an up-to-date employee handbook that is
compliant with all employment-related laws. The annual employee handbook update subscription




    05/23/2025                                    2                                      CONFIDENTIAL




                                                                                                  Page 113 of 126
Project Overview - Continued

service rate is $150.00 per year.

Human Resources Consulting Services
New Focus HR, LLC will act as the outsourced human resources consulting company for the Town of
Paonia. The HR Consultant may assist the Town Administrator and Treasurer, the Clerk, or their
designee, with guidance related to various human resource-related challenges with setting up the
infrastructure for a human resources department to include, but not limited to:

    •    Form I-9 audit,
    •    new hire onboarding processes,
    •    employee file maintenance,
    •    HR compliance posters,
    •    employee relations issues,
    •    job descriptions,
    •    performance management,
    •    HR-related forms,
    •    HR policies and procedures,
    •    salary ordinance development,
    •    terminations,
    •    workers’ compensation issues,
    •    etc.

Ongoing assistance may include onsite or telephone consulting services and/or representation with
employees and/or outside entities on behalf of the Town of Paonia, at the request of the Town
Administrator and Treasurer, the Clerk, or their designee.

Logistics and Expectations
    •    The Town of Paonia will provide the HR Consultant with electronic or hard copies of their
         current HR-related policies, procedures, employee handbook, ordinances, etc., as
         appropriate for the current project that the HR Consultant is engaged with on behalf of the
         organization.
    •    All work will be conducted in the New Focus HR offices.
    •    Communications between the HR Consultant and the Town Administrator and Treasurer,
         the Clerk, or their designee will take place via email, telephone, or video conference, as
         requested.




05/23/2025                                           3                                 CONFIDENTIAL




                                                                                                Page 114 of 126
Cost Summary and Signatures

Proposal/Agreement for Services – Expires 60-days from 05/23/2025, unless fully
executed by both parties.

 Project                                                                     Cost Estimate
 A La Carte Menu of HR Consulting Services
 The Design and Development of a Legally                                          $7,500.00
 Compliant Employee Handbook – The                                              (fixed rate fee)
 development and delivery of a legally compliant
 employee handbook as outlined on page two.

 Annual Employee Handbook Update                                            $150.00/per year
 Subscription Service – To include updates to the                 (billed at the start of the project and
 employee handbook, as needed and as outlined on                         then annually thereafter)
 page two.

 Human Resources Consulting Services – To                                     $175.00/per hour
 include the services as outlined on page three. HR                    (billed to the closest ½ hour)
 consulting services are billed only as utilized.

ASSUMPTIONS
New Focus HR, LLC will provide HR consulting services at the time that the proposal becomes a signed
agreement for services and ending on an agreed to date. New Focus HR, LLC will provide the Client with a
detailed invoice at the beginning of the employee handbook project for half of the total fixed rate fee and at
the end of the project, or at the six-month mark if the Consultant has not received the final edits from the
Client, for the second half of the total fixed rate fee. The optional annual subscription fee will be invoiced at
the start of the employee handbook project and then annually thereafter. Hourly consulting fees will be billed
on either the 15th or 30th of the month for services rendered during the previous two-week period. Client agrees
to pay the invoices upon receipt (refer to Attachment A - Terms and Conditions).

SIGNATURES
The below signatories legally represent their organization and are obligated to contractually commit their
municipality to this agreement in total which includes Attachment A – Terms and Conditions.

Town of Paonia                                          New Focus HR, LLC
Organization’s Name                                     Company Name

_____________________                                   Kristen Deutsch
Stefen Wynn, Town Administrator and                     Kristen Deutsch, M.B.A., CCP, President
Treasurer/Signature                                     Electronic Signature

Stefen Wynn, Town Administrator and                     Kristen Deutsch, M.B.A., CCP, President
Treasurer/Officer Name and Title                        Officer Name and Title

____________                                            05/23/2025
Date                                                    Date



05/23/2025                                                 4                                     CONFIDENTIAL




                                                                                                           Page 115 of 126
Attachment A – Terms and Conditions

TERMS AND CONDITIONS
This Agreement is made effective as of May 23, 2025, by and between the Town of Paonia and New Focus
HR, LLC.

In this Agreement, the party who is contracting to receive services shall be referred to as “Client”, and the
party who will be providing the services shall be referred to as “New Focus HR”.

New Focus HR has a background in human resources and is willing to provide services to Client based on
this background. Client desires to have services provided by New Focus HR.

Therefore, the parties agree as follows:

1. DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES.
New Focus HR will provide HR consulting services at the time that the proposal becomes a signed agreement
for services and ending on and agreed to date. New Focus HR will provide the following services (collectively,
the” Services”): HR consulting services as described on pages two through three of this document.

2. PERFORMANCE OF SERVICES.
The manner in which the Services are to be performed and the specific hours to be worked by New Focus HR
shall be determined by the New Focus HR and as agreed to by the Client.

3. PAYMENT.
Client will pay a fee to New Focus HR for the Services as detailed on page four of this document.

A. Invoice. New Focus HR will provide the Client with a detailed invoice at the beginning of the employee
handbook project for half of the total fixed rate fee and at the end of the project, or at the six-month mark if the
HR Consultant has not received the final edits from the Client, for the second half of the total fixed rate fee.
The optional annual subscription fee will be invoiced at the start of the employee handbook project and then
annually thereafter. Hourly consulting fees will be billed on either the 15th or 30th of the month for services
rendered during the previous two-week period.

B. Payment Period. Client agrees to pay the invoice(s) upon receipt and in accordance with their claims
processing.

C. Late Payments and Charges. If for any reason payment is not made when due (no later than ten days after
the receipt of the invoice), a late fee will be added to the total invoice charges at the rate of 1.5% per month
(18% annually). New Focus HR shall also charge $100.00 for each payment that is not cleared by the bank
for any reason, including insufficient funds in client’s account to cover the amount of the check. Client agrees
to pay all costs of collection, including reasonable attorney’s fees and Client waives presentment, demand,
notice and protest.

If for any reason’s payment is not made when due, Client agrees that New Focus HR will have the right to
immediately terminate services. Such termination shall be effective on the last day for which New Focus HR
has provided services for the Client under the terms of this Agreement.

4. EXPENSE REIMBURSMENT.
Client will pay all necessary travel expenses to and from an agreed to meeting site, outside of 200-miles from
the New Focus HR offices, to include mileage, airline tickets, hotel rooms, etc. unless otherwise noted. New
Focus HR shall invoice client for any other expenses (i.e., office supplies, etc.) incurred by them and agreed
to by Client. The current Internal Revenue Service (IRS) rate will be invoiced for all mileage expenses.

5. SUPPORT SERVICES.
As appropriate quality review meetings may be called to review performance and the working relationship
between the Client and New Focus HR. Such meetings may be scheduled after a signed agreement has been
received by New Focus HR and for one week following the termination of this agreement. Client agrees to



05/23/2025                                                  5                                      CONFIDENTIAL




                                                                                                              Page 116 of 126
Attachment A – Terms and Conditions - Continued

pay New Focus HR at the rate of $175 per hour for all quality review meetings with Town Administrator and
Treasurer, or their designee, if needed.

6. NEW PROJECT APPROVAL.
The client recognizes that New Focus HRs services will be limited to the scope defined within this proposal.
New Focus HR shall obtain the approval of the Client prior to the commencement of a new project.

7. TERMINATION.
This is an agreement that shall terminate with 15 days written request by either party, outside of the payment
terms to New Focus HR, as described in section 3 above. Client agrees to pay for any undisputed services up
to termination.

8. RELATIONSHIP OF PARTIES.
It is understood by the parties that New Focus HR is an independent contractor with respect to the Client, and
not an employee of the Client. The client will not provide fringe benefits, including health insurance benefits,
paid vacation, or any other employee benefit, for the benefit of New Focus HR employees.

With respect to the services provided by New Focus HR, New Focus HR is an independent contractor.
Employees provided by New Focus HR hereunder shall receive compensation and benefits to which they may
be entitled from New Focus HR and are not eligible for any benefits provided to employees of Client during
such assignment. The parties agree that the employees provided by New Focus HR shall not be considered
Client’s employees for any purposes whatsoever. New Focus HR will make all appropriate tax, social security,
Medicare, and other withholding deductions and payments, and all appropriate unemployment tax payments,
in connection with the employees provided by New Focus HR hereunder.

New Focus HR shall not make any strategic, operational or other business-related decisions regarding the
Client’s business. Such decisions shall exclusively be the responsibility of the Client. New Focus HR shall
bear neither responsibility nor liability for any actions or inactions by Client. When implementing such
decisions, Client shall be acting solely on its own volition and responsibility.

9. INSURANCE.
New Focus HR acknowledges the obligation to carry appropriate insurance coverage for the benefit of their
employees. New Focus HR waives any rights to recovery from the client for any injuries that may be sustained
while performing services under this Agreement and that are a result of the employees own negligence.

New Focus HR agrees to carry the following insurance coverage during the term of this agreement: Worker’s
compensation as required by the laws of the state in which the services are being performed and
comprehensive general liability and property damage insurance with combined bodily injury and property
damage limit of $1,000,000 for each occurrence.

10. INDEMNIFICATION.
Client agrees to indemnify, defend, and hold New Focus HR and anyone personally or professionally affiliated
with the company harmless from and against any and all liabilities, expenses (including court costs and
reasonable attorney’s fees), and claims for damage of any nature what so ever, whether known or unknown
as though expressly set forth and described herein, which the Indemnified parties may incur, suffer, become
liable for, or which may be asserted or claimed against the Indemnified Parties as a result of (i) any action or
inaction of Client, or (ii) (without limiting the foregoing) any breach by Client of, any noncompliance by Client
with, or misrepresentation by Client made or deemed made under or in connection with, this Agreement.

11. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY.
The following provisions shall apply with respect to copyrightable works, ideas, discoveries, inventions,
applications for patents, and patents (collectively, “Intellectual Property”):

A. HR Consultant’s Intellectual Property. New Focus HR holds an interest in the intellectual property that is
developed and used on this assignment. This intellectual property may be used during client engagements
but remains the property of New Focus HR.


05/23/2025                                                 6                                     CONFIDENTIAL




                                                                                                           Page 117 of 126
Attachment A – Terms and Conditions - Continued

B. Development of Intellectual Property. Any improvements to intellectual property items, further inventions
or improvements, and any new items of intellectual property discovered or developed by New Focus HR,
during the term of this Agreement shall be owned by both parties. Use of intellectual property purchased by
the Client should be unencumbered.

12. CONFIDENTIALITY.
Neither New Focus HR nor Client shall disclose or use for any purpose other than the performance of services
or its obligations under this Agreement any and all trade secrets and other confidential or proprietary
information disclosed to the receiving party by or on behalf of the disclosing party (“Confidential Information”)
or developed and/or discovered by the receiving party as a result of the performance of Services or using
Confidential Information (all of the foregoing together with Confidential Information, collectively “Information”).
This obligation of non-disclosure and non-use shall not apply to Confidential Information which the receiving
party can demonstrate: (i) at the time of disclosure is or thereafter becomes available to the public through
no breach of this Agreement by the receiving party; (ii) as shown by written records, was known to or otherwise
in the possession of the receiving party prior to receipt of such Confidential Information; (iii) is obtained by the
receiving party from a source other than the disclosing party and other than one who would be breaching a
commitment of confidentiality or non-use of the disclosing party; or (iv) as shown by written records, is
developed by the receiving party independently of any disclosure of Confidential Information made hereunder.

To the extent that the receiving party is required, whether by statute, regulation, law or order of a count of
competent jurisdiction, to disclose any Information the disclosure of which is prohibited under this Agreement,
the receiving part shall provide the disclosing party with prompt written notice of any such requirement as to
permit New Focus HR or Client to seek a protective order or other appropriate remedy and will disclose only
that portion of Information which is counsel advises is legally required to be disclosed. Upon the earlier of
expiration or termination of this Agreement, the receiving party shall, if requested by the disclosing party,
return or destroy all Information and copies of extracts thereof. The non-owning party may retain one (1) copy
for archival purposes.

13. UNAUTHORIZED DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION.
 If it appears that either party has disclosed (or has threatened to disclose) Information in violation of this
Agreement, both shall be entitled to an injunction to restrain the other from disclosing, in whole or in part, such
Information, or from providing any services to any party to whom such information has been disclosed or may
be disclosed. Either party shall not be prohibited by this provision from pursuing other remedies, including a
claim for losses and damages.

14. CONFIDENTIALITY AFTER TERMINATION.
The confidentiality provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect after the termination of this
Agreement for both parties.

15. RETURN OF RECORDS.
Upon termination of this Agreement, New Focus HR shall deliver all records, notes, data, memoranda, models,
and equipment of any nature that are in New Focus HRs possession or under New Focus HRs control and
that are the Clients’ property or relate to the Clients’ business, to the Town Administrator and Treasurer, or
their designee.

16. NOTICES.
All notices required or permitted under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed delivered when
delivered in person or deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:

If for Client:              Stefen Wynn, Town Administrator and Treasurer
                            Name of Person and Title
                            214 Grand Avenue, Paonia, Colorado 81428
                            Address

If for New Focus HR:        Kristen Deutsch, M.B.A., CCP, President
                            Name of Person and Title
                            14350 Mundy Drive, Suite 800, Box 106, Noblesville, IN 46060
                            Address
05/23/2025                                                  7                                      CONFIDENTIAL




                                                                                                              Page 118 of 126
Attachment A - Continued

Such addresses may be changed from time to time by either party by providing written notice to the other in
the manner set forth above.

17. ENTIRE AGREEMENT.
This Agreement contains the entire agreement of the parties and there are no other promises or conditions in
any other agreement whether oral or written. This Agreement supersedes any prior written or oral agreements
between parties. This Agreement shall not be modified in any way, except by written agreement signed by
both parties.

18. AMENDMENT.
This Agreement may be modified or amended if the amendment is made in writing and is signed by both
parties.

19. SEVERABILITY.
If any provision of this Agreement shall be held to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the remaining
provisions shall continue to be valid and enforceable. If a court finds that any provision of this Agreement is
invalid or unenforceable, but that by limiting such provision it would become valid and enforceable, then such
provision shall be deemed to be written, construed, and enforced as so limited.

20. WAIVER OF CONTRACTUAL RIGHT.
The failure of either party to enforce any provision of this Agreement shall not be construed as a waiver or
limitation of that party’s right to subsequently enforce and compel compliance with every provision of this
Agreement.

21. APPLICABLE LAW.
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Indiana in Hamilton County, Indiana.

22. ASSIGNMENT.
This Agreement shall not be transferred or assigned without the written consent of both parties.

23. OBLIGATION OF AGREEMENT.
The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon the parties and their respective successors and
assignees.

24. HEADINGS.
The headings in this Agreement are intended for convenience or reference and shall not affect its
interpretation.

25. LEGAL EXPENSES.
If legal actions or other proceedings, including arbitration proceedings, are brought for the enforcement of this
Agreement or because of an alleged breach default or misrepresentation in connection with the provisions
hereof, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover his reasonable attorney’s fees and other costs incurred
in such action or proceeding from the unsuccessful party in addition to any other relief to which he may be
entitled.

26. E-VERIFY.
New Focus HR has complied with all regulations and laws for its employees as stated within the federal E-
Verify system.




05/23/2025                                                 8                                     CONFIDENTIAL




                                                                                                           Page 119 of 126
Consultant’s Biographies

Kristen Deutsch, M.B.A., CCP
President/Sr. HR Consultant

Kristen Deutsch has over 36-years of management and human resources experience. She
received her B.S. from Michigan State University and an M.B.A. from Indiana Wesleyan
University. She is currently President of New Focus HR, LLC.

Kristen has worked in many business areas including academia, financial services, health care,
hospitality, manufacturing, utilities and other customer service-related industries. Throughout her
career, she has worked as a Human Resources Manager for Biosound, Methodist Occupational
Health Centers, Banc One, United Pentek, Engledow Group, the Indiana University School of
Medicine and as the Vice President of Consulting at Professional Staff Management, Inc. and as
an HR Consultant at Tilson HR prior to starting New Focus HR, LLC in 2009.

Kristen’s experiences in the human resources field includes benefits, compensation, employee
relations and compliance, labor/union relations, immigration law, workers’ compensation,
organizational design/change management, executive coaching, staffing/recruitment and training
and development. She has continued her excellence in the HR profession by attaining her
certification as a Certified Compensation Professional (CCP) through the WorldatWork Society,
Scottsdale, Arizona, and as a trainer for Development Dimensions International (DDI), Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, in their Interaction Management/Skills for an Empowered Workforce Program.
Kristen has also done extensive training and development in the areas of business
communications, time management, anti-harassment, discrimination and retaliation, management
and supervisory skills, team building and behavioral interviewing.

Kristen is currently a member of the Society for Human Resources Management (SHRM) and
WorldatWork. Kristen enjoys traveling, reading and spending time with family.

Kathi Walker, PHR, SHRM-SCP
Sr. HR Consultant

Kathi Walker has been with New Focus HR, LLC, since May of 2017. She is a graduate of
Indiana Wesleyan University, with a bachelor’s degree in Music. Prior to joining the New Focus
HR team, she spent 17 years working for the Free Methodist World Missions/Free Methodist
Church, U.S.A., as a Training & Development Coordinator in their Human Resources
Department. Her primary focus was on providing communication, care, intervention, training,
resourcing and crisis management for employees and their families, so that they were better able
to thrive physically, emotionally, psychologically, intellectually and spiritually in their cross-cultural
assignments around the world. She brings her training and development as well as crisis
management and coaching skills to New Focus HR. Kathi’s main area of concentration with New
Focus HR, is in the development of job descriptions and organizational charts, employee
handbooks, conducting investigations, conducting exit interviews, and in resolving employee
relations issues for our clients. Kathi has earned her designation as a Professional in Human
Resources (PHR) and as a Senior Certified Professional (SHRM-SCP) and is a member of the
Society for Human Resources Management (SHRM). Kathi enjoys music, travel, and spending
time with family and friends.




05/23/2025                                              9                                  CONFIDENTIAL




                                                                                                     Page 120 of 126
Consultant’s Biographies - Continued

Imani Murphy, MSM, SHRM-SCP
HR Consultant

Imani Murphy has been with New Focus HR, LLC, since April 2024. She is a graduate of Earlham
College in Richmond, Indiana with a Bachelors of Arts degree in Economics. She also holds a
Master’s of Science degree in Management from Indiana Wesleyan University in Marion, Indiana.
Prior to joining New Focus, Imani worked in human resources for the State of Indiana and the
City of Richmond, Indiana. Imani’s main area of concentration with New Focus HR, is the
development of job descriptions and organizational charts, employee handbooks, conducting
investigations, conducting exit interviews, and in resolving employee relations issues for our
clients. Imani has been a member of the Society of Human Resource Management (SHRM) and
local chapter Eastern Indiana HR Association (EIHRA) since 2017 and has earned her SHRM-
SCP certification. Imani enjoys music, movies/TV, travel, and spending time with family and
friends.

Jason Love, SHRM-CP
HR Consultant

Jason Love has been with New Focus HR, LLC, since August of 2022. He is a graduate of
Indiana University/Purdue University, Indianapolis, Indiana, with a bachelor’s degree in
Elementary Education. Jason’s main area of concentration with New Focus HR, is conducting our
client’s background checks, conducting our client’s onboarding sessions with new hires, creating
and editing employee handbooks and job descriptions, assisting with various employee relations
issues, and completing various internal tasks related to New Focus HR, LLC. Jason has earned
his certification as a lean six sigma green belt and as a certified professional from the Society of
Human Resources Management (SHRM) and is a member of the Society for Human Resources
Management (SHRM) and IndySHRM. Jason enjoys music, movies, and spending time with his
family.




05/23/2025                                          10                                 CONFIDENTIAL




                                                                                               Page 121 of 126
References

    1.) Mrs. Lynda Dunbar           OR             Ms. Laurie Hardwick
        Mayor                                      City Attorney
        City of Greencastle                        City of Greencastle
        1 N. Locust Street                         1 N. Locust Street
        Greencastle, IN 46135                      Greencastle, IN 46135
        (765) 848-1510 office                      (765) 848-1510 office
        (765) 719-2493 mobile                      LHardwick@cityofgreencastle.com
        LDunbar@cityofgreencastle.com

    2.) Ms. Elizabeth Walden
        Clerk-Treasurer
        Town of Sheridan
        506 S. Main Street
        Sheridan, IN 46069

         (317) 758-5293 office
         ewalden@sheridan.in.gov

    3.) Ms. Kerry Sayre
        Clerk-Treasurer
        City of Winchester
        113 E. Washington St.
        P.O. Box 408
        Winchester, IN 47394

         (765) 584-1351 ext. 2300 office
         clerk@winchester-in.gov

    4.) Mrs. Rhonda Gary
        Clerk-Treasurer
        Town of Cicero
        331 East Jackson Street
        Cicero, IN 46034

         (317) 984-4900 office
         rgary@townofcicero.in.gov

    5.) Ms. Barbara Hawn
        Clerk-Treasurer
        City of Ligonier
        301 S. Cavin Street, Suite 2
        Ligonier, IN 46767

         (260) 894-4113 office
         bhawn@ligonier-in.gov

    6.) Mrs. Bri Lautzenheiser
        Deputy Clerk-Treasurer – Human Resources
        City of Bluffton
        128 E. Market Street
        Bluffton, IN 46714

         (260) 824-1299 office
         bri@blufftonindiana.gov




05/23/2025                                           11                              CONFIDENTIAL




                                                                                            Page 122 of 126
     Outlook


RE: New Focus HR, LLC - Proposal/Agreement for Services

From kristen@newfocushr.com <kristen@newfocushr.com>
Date Wed 5/28/2025 9:34 AM
To    Samira V <SamiraV@townofpaonia.com>; Stefen Wynn <StefenW@townofpaonia.com>


Please refer to my answers in “red” below and let me know what else you may need from me.

Thanks!

Sincerely,

Kristen

Kristen Deutsch, M.B.A., CCP
President
New Focus HR, LLC
317-445-4163 direct

kristen@newfocushr.com
www.newfocushr.com
https://www.linkedin.com/in/KristenDeutsch/
https://www.facebook.com/NewFocusHR/




Confidentiality Notice: This email message and documents accompanying this transmission contain
confidential information that is legally privileged. This information is intended for the use of the
recipients(s) name above. The authorized recipient(s) of this information is prohibited from disclosing this
information to any other party unless required to do so by law or regulations and is required to destroy
the information after its stated need has been fulfilled.

If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any disclosure, copying, distribution, or
action taken in reliance on the contents of these documents is strictly prohibited. If you have received
this information in error, please notify Kristen Deutsch (the sender) immediately and arrange for return or
destruction of these documents.

From: Samira V <SamiraV@townofpaonia.com>
Sent: Wednesday, May 28, 2025 10:29 AM
To: kristen@newfocushr.com; Stefen Wynn <StefenW@townofpaonia.com>
Subject: Re: New Focus HR, LLC - Proposal/Agreement for Services


Hi Kristen,

                                                                                                Page 123 of 126
Thank you for the quote! Here are the Sole proprietor questions:

1. What capability do you have that is critical to the specific effort and makes the
contractor clearly unique compared to other contractors in the general field?
New Focus HR, LLC has been providing outsourced human resources services to municipalities of
all sizes since August of 2009. Our uniqueness stems from understanding the structure of
government entities and the employment-related laws that pertain to government entities. Thus,
providing legally compliant employee handbooks is our specialty.

2. What prior experience of a highly specialized nature does your firm have that is
vital to the proposed effort?
New Focus HR, LLC has been working with municipal governments for 16 years, plus we have
over 60 years of human resources expertise on our team of professionals. We understand
employment law and how to structure human resources departments within municipal
government entities.

3. Does your firm have a substantial investment that would need to be duplicated at
the Town's expense by another contractor entering the field?
Not applicable.

4. If timelines are involved, why are they critical and why can your firm best meet
them?
From the date that we get a signed agreement returned from the town, it will take approximately
ten to 14 days to get the initial employee handbook meeting scheduled. From that date it will take
approximately eight weeks for New Focus HR, LLC to get the first draft of the employee handbook
completed and returned to the town for their review. It will then be up to the town to review the
first draft and get edits back to the consultant for updating.

5. Is competition precluded because of the existence of patent rights, or copyrights?
Not applicable. However, New Focus HR, LLC does have the rights to the template used for the
employee handbook project.

6. Does this acquisition require compatibility with any existing Town equipment?
Not applicable.

7. What unique characteristic does the equipment or material offered by your firm
possess that are required to meet the Town's needs?
New Focus HR, LLC utilizes a template that they have created for employee handbooks. The
template is customized for the town for their sole use. The town may not share the document with
other municipalities without the express written consent of the President of New Focus HR, LLC.

8. Is competition precluded because of existing equipment maintenance
program/contracts/warranties?
New Focus HR, LLC does not have any existing agreements with the town. However, New Focus
HR, LLC does offer an annual employee handbook update subscription service as part of an
agreement. This service is unique from other companies in that we guarantee that the town will


                                                                                      Page 124 of 126
always have an up-to-date employee handbook that is legally compliant with all federal and state
employment-related laws.

Thank you,
Sam


                         Samira M. Vetter
                         Paonia Town Clerk/ Human
                         Resources
                         P : (970) 527-4101
                         M: (970) 742-4658
                         E : SamiraV@TownofPaonia.com
                         214 Grand Ave.
                         PO Box 460
                         Paonia, CO 81428
                         https://townofpaonia.colorado.gov




     Book time to meet with me
“The measure of who we are is what we do with what we have.” – Vince Lombardi

Sender and receiver should be mindful that all my incoming and outgoing
emails may be subject to the Colorado Open Records Act, § 24-72-100.1, et seq.


From: kristen@newfocushr.com <kristen@newfocushr.com>
Sent: Friday, May 23, 2025 10:05 AM
To: Stefen Wynn <StefenW@townofpaonia.com>; Samira V <SamiraV@townofpaonia.com>
Subject: New Focus HR, LLC - Proposal/Agreement for Services

Good morning,

Sam, thank you for your time earlier this week. It was great to meet you and to learn more about the HR-
related needs at the Town of Paonia.

Stefen, I hope that you are enjoying your time in Indy? We look forward to attending the race on Sunday,
although the temperatures may be a bit cool compared to past races.

Per our discussion, I have attached a proposal/agreement for services document to this email. Stefen if
you are in agreement and your Board of Trustees is in agreement, please sign on page four, scan, and
return to me. Once I get a signed agreement back from you, it will take about ten-days for us to get an
initial meeting on the calendar. From that date it will take about six to eight-weeks for me to get a draft of
an employee handbook back to the town to start your review.

Please let me know if you have any questions at all.

Thanks so much for reaching out and I will look forward to hearing back from you.



                                                                                                 Page 125 of 126
Take care.

Sincerely,

Kristen

Kristen Deutsch, M.B.A., CCP
President
New Focus HR, LLC
317-445-4163 direct

kristen@newfocushr.com
www.newfocushr.com
https://www.linkedin.com/in/KristenDeutsch/
https://www.facebook.com/NewFocusHR/




Confidentiality Notice: This email message and documents accompanying this transmission contain
confidential information that is legally privileged. This information is intended for the use of the
recipients(s) name above. The authorized recipient(s) of this information is prohibited from disclosing this
information to any other party unless required to do so by law or regulations and is required to destroy
the information after its stated need has been fulfilled.

If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any disclosure, copying, distribution, or
action taken in reliance on the contents of these documents is strictly prohibited. If you have received
this information in error, please notify Kristen Deutsch (the sender) immediately and arrange for return or
destruction of these documents.




                                                                                                Page 126 of 126
