                                              ETHICS, LIABILITY
                                              & BEST PRACTICES
                                                FOR ELECTED
                                                  OFFICIALS




                         HANDBOOK                                      SECON D ED ITION 2019




                                                SAFERTOGETHER




EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 3                           6/4/2019 1:02:41 PM
                                                   ETHICS, LIABILITY &
                                                    BEST PRACTICES
                                              HANDBOOK
                                            FOR ELECTED OFFICIALS




                                                                Tami A. Tanoue
                                                            CIRSA Executive Director
                                                                       Sam Light
                                                             CIRSA General Counsel
                                                                 Robert Widner
                                                                  Widner Juran LLP
                                                                  Linda Michow
                                                          Michow Cox & McAskin LLP
                                                          Christiana McCormick
                                                          Michow Cox & McAskin LLP



                                                                        CIRSA
                                                       3665 Cherry Creek North Drive
                                                         Denver, Colorado 80209
                                                             800.228.7136
                                                              www.cirsa.org

                                                                         CML
                                                             1144 Sherman Street
                                                            Denver, Colorado 80203
                                                                303.831.6411
                                                                 www.cml.org




EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 5                   6/4/2019 1:02:41 PM
                                          TAB L E O F CO N T E N T S

           ABOUT THE AUTHORS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3

           PREFACE             . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4

           FOREWORD . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5

           CHAPTER 1: The Oath of Office: Ethics, Liability and Best Practices . . . . . . 7

           CHAPTER 2: Healing Divisions on the Governing Body:
                      Can’t We All Just Get Along . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11

           CHAPTER 3: Governing Bodies and The Outlier Syndrome . . . . . . . . . . 17

           CHAPTER 4: Liability Protections and You . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21

           CHAPTER 5: Open Meetings and Executive Sessions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25

           CHAPTER 6: Ethical Conduct in Local Government . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29

           CHAPTER 7: Harassment Issues: What Elected Officials Need to Know . . . 35

           CHAPTER 8: Elected Officials’ Involvement in Personnel Matters . . . . . . . 41

           CHAPTER 9: Social Media Use by Elected Officials . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47

           CHAPTER 10: Appointment and Removal of Officials in Statutory
                       Towns . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51




       2



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 6                                    6/4/2019 1:02:41 PM
                                                           A B O UT T H E
                                                            AUTHORS
          Tami A. Tanoue
          Tami Tanoue has been CIRSA’s Executive                       with the Denver law firm of Gorsuch Kirgis LLP
          Director since August, 2018. Her previous                    where Bob served as the city, town, or county
          positions with CIRSA include General Counsel/                attorney for a wide variety of communities
          Deputy Executive Director and General                        throughout Colorado.
          Counsel/Claims Manager. She was previously
          in private practice with the firm of Griffiths,
          Tanoue, Light, Harrington & Dawes, where she
                                                                       Linda Michow
          served CIRSA as its contract General Counsel                 Linda Michow is a founding partner of the
          for 12 years, and was City or Town Attorney                  law firm of Michow Cox & McAskin LLP
          for several Colorado municipalities. Prior to                in Greenwood Village, Colorado where she
          that, she was Staff Attorney for the Colorado                maintains a robust local government practice.
          Municipal League, where she represented the                  Ms. Michow is an experienced local government
          collective interests of Colorado municipalities.             attorney well-versed in annexation, land use,
          Tami is a regular speaker on local government                urban renewal and zoning matters as well as
          liability topics and has written several                     in the day-to-day issues facing Colorado local
          publications on liability issues.                            governments including TABOR, elections,
                                                                       open records, and liquor licensing. Ms.
                                                                       Michow enjoys participating in educational
          Sam Light                                                    seminars and training of the firm’s elected
          Sam Light joined CIRSA as General Counsel                    and appointed officials and municipal staff
          in 2018 and was previously in private practice               and is also a frequent presenter to the broader
          with the Denver firm of Light Kelly PC, where                local government community on current and
          he practiced for over twenty years in the                    recurring local government issues.
          areas of municipal and public entity law, and
          government liability and insurance issues. Sam
          has served as general and special counsel to
                                                                       Christiana McCormick
          home rule and statutory municipalities and                   Christiana McCormick is an associate attorney
          other public entities throughout Colorado,                   at the law firm of Michow Cox & McAskin
          and frequently provides training for municipal               LLP. Her practice involves representation of
          elected and appointed officials and staff.                   local governments and covers a variety of areas,
                                                                       including taxation, land use, urban renewal,
                                                                       and law enforcement matters. Before joining
          Robert Widner                                                Michow Cox & McAskin, Christiana served as
          Robert (Bob) Widner is a founding partner                    a judicial law clerk to the Honorable Norma A.
          with the law firm of Widner Juran LLP. Bob’s                 Sierra in Boulder District Court and completed
          practice focuses on the general representation               a legal fellowship at the Denver City Attorney’s
          of local governments with a special emphasis in              Office, where she assisted with state and federal
          advising and training governmental bodies on                 civil litigation matters primarily involving the
          best practices to foster ethics, transparency, and           Colorado Governmental Immunity Act and
          meeting efficiency. Bob currently serves as the              constitutional claims arising under 42 U.S.C.
          City Attorney for the City of Centennial. Prior              Section 1983.
          to founding his law firm, Bob was a partner
                                                                                                                           3



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 7                                             6/4/2019 1:02:41 PM
                                                                P R E FAC E
                           If you’ve stepped up to the challenges of serving as an elected official
                           in your community, congratulations! You’re dedicating your energy,
                           wisdom, and experience towards making your city or town the best it
                           can be. But the job of an elected official is not an easy one. Missteps
                           can make you less effective, undermine your credibility, and even
                           lead to liability.
                           In this newly revised and expanded edition of the popular Ethics,
                           Liability & Best Practices Handbook for Elected Officials, we discuss
                           many of the issues of greatest concern to elected officials from
                           the standpoint of maximizing excellence and effectiveness, while
                           minimizing the risk of liability. The contributors have provided
                           decades of service to municipalities, individually and collectively.
                           We’ve tried to keep the content engaging, on-point, and light on the
                           legalese.
                           At CIRSA and CML, we pride ourselves on partnering with our
                           member local governments. CIRSA offers a wide range of risk
                           management services, from providing property, liability, and workers’
                           compensation coverage, to managing claims, assisting in managing
                           your risks, providing training to elected officials and staff, and
                           consulting on virtually every liability-related topic. Founded in 1923,
                           CML is a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization providing services
                           and resources to assist municipal officials in managing and serving
                           Colorado cities and towns. CML works to empower Colorado cities
                           and towns through legislative and legal advocacy, training, research
                           and information, and leadership on matters of municipal interest.
                           We hope you will find this publication to be of value to you as you
                           undertake the challenging and rewarding work of governing your
                           community.




                           Tami A. Tanoue                              Kevin Bommer
                           CIRSA Executive Director                    CML Executive Director




       4



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 8                                  6/4/2019 1:02:41 PM
                                                           F O R E WO R D
          By: William E. Bell, MPA, ICMA-CM                            In working with thousands of constituents,
                                                                       hundreds of employees, and dozens of elected
          City Manager for the City of Montrose &                      officials during my 16 years of managing
          former Executive Board President of the                      communities, it is those individuals who were
          Colorado Municipal League (CML) and                          interested in self-reflection and continuous
          the Colorado City & County Management                        improvement that I have truly admired for
          Association (CCCMA).                                         answering the call to public service. Theirs is
          We have all heard the old saying: “Ethics is                 an example worthy of emulation and one that
          doing the right thing when no one is watching.”              safeguards public officials from ethical missteps.
          Well, what about doing the right thing while                 We all struggle to find our place when we are
          everyone is watching? How refreshing it might                new to an organization, and it is a time when
          be to sit in a nice quiet office or out on a park            we are most susceptible to outside persuasion
          bench with the birds chirping in the distance,               and manipulation. During times of transition,
          while pondering our options prior to making                  it is especially important to rely on each other’s
          a decision that affects hundreds, or even                    experience and expertise and to reach out
          thousands of people for years to come. How                   for support and guidance whenever there is
          reassuring it might be to run all of our ideas               uncertainty. Here in Colorado we are lucky to
          by a panel of experts to vet the pros and cons               have several well-versed organizations such as
          over an extended period prior to making our                  CIRSA and CML at our disposal to offer advice
          next decision. Sound good? Of course it does!                on how to handle ethical dilemmas and complex
          However, that is simply not reality for a local              situations. However, we must be willing to
          government official in today’s fast-paced world.             tap these valuable resources prior to getting
          But no matter the pace or pressures, this                    ourselves into trouble. Asking for help is not a
          overarching point of municipal leadership                    sign of weakness, but is rather an indication of
          remains the same: MAINTAINING                                care, thoughtfulness and wisdom.
          ETHICAL INTEGRITY—AND DOING                                  While there is no single blueprint to success for
          THE RIGHT THING—AT ALL TIMES IS A                            local government leaders, no recipe to follow
          REQUIREMENT for elected and appointed                        to create the perfect outcomes, building strong
          officials alike. Our communities are microcosms              and healthy relationships is the foundation
          of our society, and with an ever-changing                    of both achievement and sound ethical
          demographic we are facing ever-changing                      practice. Whether it is the idealistic vision
          expectations as to what role we should play as               shared between two newly elected officials, or
          local government leaders. We are all facing the              the mutual respect and deference exhibited
          unique pressures of being public servants and                between a seasoned manager and his or her
          although it is most definitely a worthwhile and              councilmembers; one thing is certain: the
          rewarding calling for most of us, it can also be             relationships connecting our local government
          frustrating, unpredictable and complicated at                leaders are what lay the foundation for
          times.                                                       sustainable and productive local governance in
          More often than not, elected and appointed                   today’s society.
          officials reach at least one point in their                  I hope you are able to spend some time
          tenure where doubt creeps in, making them                    reviewing the information in this second edition
          wonder about the true value of being in local                of Ethics, Liability & Best Practices Handbook for
          government. Is it worth it? Can I handle this?               Elected Officials and taking to heart its content.
          Questioning oneself and our actions during                   This material offers a common ground from
          times of uncertainty and chaos is normal and                 which all Colorado officials can work to make
          does not mean that we are doing anything                     the communities of this great State even better.
          wrong. In fact, I would argue the opposite.
                                                                                                                            5



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 9                                             6/4/2019 1:02:41 PM
       6



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 10   6/4/2019 1:02:41 PM
                                                           CHAPTER 1
                                        THE OATH OF OFFICE:
                               ETHICS, LIABILITY AND BEST PRACTICES
                                         By: Tami A. Tanoue, CIRSA Executive Director &
                                               Sam Light, CIRSA General Counsel



          A typical oath of office might go as follows:
                    “I solemnly swear or affirm that I will support the Constitution and laws of the
                    United States of America and the State of Colorado, [the Charter,] the ordinances
                    and other laws of the City/Town, and that I will faithfully perform the duties of the
                    office upon which I am about to enter.”
          With the passage of time since you took office, does your oath have continuing meaning
          as an ethical commitment? This chapter examines the oath as a commitment to best
          practices in carrying out your responsibilities, and as a path to avoiding liability. We’ll
          focus on four key areas: allocation of responsibilities, transparency in meetings, quasi-
          judicial rules of engagement, and personal conduct.

          Honoring the Allocation of Responsibilities
          As in other levels of government, municipal powers and responsibilities are typically
          allocated among the governing body, judge, staff, and possibly others, according to charter
          or statutory requirements. Thus, for instance, the governing body is responsible for all
          legislation, the municipal judge is responsible for determining ordinance violations, and
          the manager/administrator and staff are responsible for administrative matters.
          To the extent the charter or statutory provisions set forth a clear allocation of
          responsibilities, respecting that allocation is part of an elected official’s oath. Inappropriate
          involvement in administrative matters, then, could be a violation of your oath.
          Personnel matters are among those in which inappropriate involvement tends to occur.
          The governing body typically supervises a limited number of its own direct reports—
          for example, the chief administrator, judge, attorney, and perhaps a few others. As an
          individual elected official, if you are asked by an employee who’s not one of the governing
          body’s direct reports to become involved in an employment issue, or if you take the
          initiative to become involved, that could be a red flag in terms of your oath to respect the
          allocation of responsibilities.


                                                                                                              7



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 11                               6/4/2019 1:02:42 PM
           From a best practices standpoint, inappropriate involvement in personnel matters can
           effectively destroy the chain of command. While most municipal offices are not operated
           according to a military-style chain of command, some version of a chain of command
           is critical for effective functioning no matter how large, small, formal, or informal your
           operations are. Once you allow inappropriate involvement to occur, you have effectively
           disempowered managers and supervisors throughout the organization, and sent the
           message that employees are free to disregard the chain of command.
           Personnel matters are also a high-risk liability area. The more you’re personally involved,
           the more likely it is that your name may some day appear on the wrong end of a lawsuit,
           or come up in an executive session where your fellow members are assessing the risks
           your conduct has created. So, you can see that honoring the allocation of responsibilities
           by staying out of most personnel matters is a means of avoiding or reducing liability.

           Honoring Transparency in Meetings
           In local government, transparency of the governing body in its discussions and decisions
           is a basic expectation of the citizenry. Citizens take great interest in the goings-on of the
           governing body, and are quick to notice when their transparency expectations are not
           met. A perception that governing body members are conducting discussions secretly, that
           executive sessions are being held for improper purposes, or that decisions are being made
           in “smoke-filled back rooms,” can quickly erode trust and confidence in government.
           Transparency in meetings means that governing body meetings are open to the public
           and held only after proper public notice, that executive sessions are strictly limited to the
           purposes authorized by law, and that discussions of public issues take place in a meeting
           setting rather than by email or in hidden locations. Is this part of your oath? Most
           certainly! The statewide open meetings law applies to all local public bodies, including city
           councils and boards of trustees. If you’re a home rule municipality, there may be charter
           provisions concerning transparency as well.
           Is honoring transparency in governing body meetings a best practice? It is, if you want
           to maintain the public’s confidence and trust! Citizens expect and appreciate your body’s
           commitment to discussing and deciding difficult issues with full transparency. And
           making a commitment to transparency can also help ensure that your municipality doesn’t
           become Exhibit A in an effort to make draconian changes to the open meetings law. You
           surely don’t want to be held up as a bad example in the legislature. It’s happened.
           Is honoring transparency a liability-reducing suggestion? At CIRSA, we’ve seen our
           members become involved in litigation over their meeting practices. Based on our
           experience, the answer to that question is yes. There are watchdogs out there scrutinizing
           you, and they will pounce on you with allegations of violations and a lawsuit if your
           meetings practices don’t pass muster under the law. CIRSA has open meetings/executive
           session defense cost coverage for member governing bodies, but by honoring the letter
           and spirit of the open meetings laws, you can avoid costly and potentially embarrassing
           litigation.




       8       CHAPTER 1



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 12                             6/4/2019 1:02:42 PM
         Honoring the Quasi-Judicial Rules of Engagement
         Governing body activities can be pigeonholed broadly into two areas: legislation and
         quasi-judicial decision-making. The rules of engagement differ depending on which
         pigeonhole fits. For legislative matters, the rules of engagement are free-wheeling. Think
         of the state legislature when it’s in session, and the lobbying that goes on there. But for
         quasi-judicial matters, the rules of engagement have a basis in constitutional due process
         requirements: when you are making a decision that affects individual property rights, the
         constitution requires a properly noticed and fair hearing before a neutral decision maker—
         you. Thus, in quasi-judicial matters, you must conduct yourself similarly to the way a
         judge does in deciding a case.
         No doubt your municipal attorney has discussed the quasi-judicial rules of engagement
         with you. The attorney is trying to protect the integrity of the hearing process, the
         defensibility of the outcome, and your prerogative to participate as a decision-maker.
         These rules of engagement include:
                    • You will follow the applicable legal criteria and apply those criteria to the evidence
                      you hear at the hearing, to arrive at your decision.
                    • You will refrain from “ex parte” or “outside the hearing” contacts regarding a
                      pending quasi-judicial matter.
                    • You will not participate in decision-making in a quasi-judicial matter in which you
                      have a conflict of interest.
         These rules flow from constitutional due process requirements, so they are most certainly
         a part of your oath. Following these rules is also a way to avoid or reduce liability. In quasi-
         judicial matters, the process by which you arrive at a decision is at least as important as the
         substance of the decision itself. If you’ve ensured that the process is letter-perfect, then you
         have eliminated a huge portion of the possible quarrels that could turn into a claim. And
         it’s a best practice, because following the rules of engagement will enhance the reality and
         the perception that all who come before you with quasi-judicial matters will be heard and
         treated fairly.

         Honoring Standards of Personal Conduct
         The way you conduct yourself in relation to other members of the body, staff, and the
         community greatly impacts your effectiveness as an elected official. No matter where you
         are on the political spectrum, you can probably agree that politics today are infected with
         divisiveness and incivility. Municipal government being non-partisan, its elected officials
         should, at least in theory, be able to rise above the nastiness of partisan politics!
         With respect to the governing body, do all members understand that governance is
         a team activity? An individual elected official does not have the power to accomplish
         anything on his or her own. Rather, the allocation of responsibilities to the governing
         body is to the body as a whole. Only through collaboration and consensus-building can
         an individual’s priority become the priority of the governing body. While the governing
         body is comprised of individuals and will “deliberate with many voices,” all members must
         recognize the governing body “acts with one voice.”


                                                                                                               9



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 13                                6/4/2019 1:02:42 PM
          Has the governing body been able to “gel” as a team, or are members viewing one another
          with a sense of distrust? Are you lining up along the same divisions on every issue? Are
          you unable to disagree without being disagreeable? Perhaps some team building is in
          order if these things are happening.
          With respect to staff, is an incoming council or board viewing staff as the “enemy”? A
          staff exists to carry out the goals set by the governing body. Sometimes, with the changing
          of the guard at the governing body level, there’s an assumption that there needs to be a
          changing of the guard at the staff level, too. But if this staff faithfully carried out the goals
          of the prior governing body, why wouldn’t you expect that they will be equally able and
          willing to carry out the goals of the new body?
          With respect to the community, are public comment periods turning into “public
          inquisition” or “public argument” periods? Is “staff bashing” or “elected official bashing”
          happening at meetings? Perhaps another look at your rules of order, and your approach to
          meetings, would be appropriate. Certainly the public has every right to appear at meetings
          and make complaints. It’s a sign of faith in local government that people care enough to
          complain! But the manner in which those complaints are made, and the manner in which
          you respond, can mean the difference between a constructive, productive exchange or a
          nasty, embarrassing, unproductive, or morale-crushing attack.
          Is the observance of personal conduct standards part of your oath? At least arguably, yes.
          After all, the oath implies faithfully performing a role where you must work with others.
          And you have a fiduciary duty to act in the best interests of your municipality. It doesn’t
          seem a far stretch to impute to your oath a commitment to respectful conduct towards
          one another and the best interests of the municipality.
          Is it a best practice to observe personal conduct standards? It certainly seems so.
          Maintaining harmonious and productive working relationships with your fellow elected
          officials, staff, and the public can only increase your effectiveness. And keep in mind
          that harmony doesn’t mean you all have to agree all the time. Indeed, healthy discussion,
          debate, and disagreement are the engine for understanding issues and solving problems.
          But the idea of disagreeing without being disagreeable is important to keep in mind.
          Does the observance of personal conduct standards help with liability reduction? We
          think so. In CIRSA’s experience, turmoil at the top levels of the municipality means
          turmoil throughout the organization. After all, you know what rolls downhill. Over and
          over, we’ve seen that disharmony and dysfunction at the top means claims throughout the
          organization. These types of claims not only cost dollars to defend, but also can sap the
          governing body’s energy, destroy staff morale and cause reputational harm, all with long-
          lasting impacts.

          Conclusion
          Honoring your oath of office isn’t just something you do when your raise your right hand
          at the beginning of your term. You can look at just about any arena in which you operate
          as an elected official, and ask yourself, “What did I commit to do when I took my oath?”
          By asking and answering this question, you can stay on the path of best practices, and
          avoid or reduce personal liability.


     10        CHAPTER 1



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 14                               6/4/2019 1:02:42 PM
                                                           CHAPTER 2
                                          HEALING DIVISIONS ON THE
                                              GOVERNING BODY:
                                         CAN’T WE ALL JUST GET ALONG
                                          By: Tami A. Tanoue, CIRSA Executive Director




          At CIRSA, we’re seeing more and more instances of governing bodies with intractable
          divisions that cut across virtually all of the body’s decision-making. This division is
          affecting productivity, driving away opportunity, and undermining citizen confidence.
          It also lends itself to disputes and claims, with corresponding risks of liability. In this
          chapter, we’ll explore the causes and impacts of such divisions, and explore some possible
          ways to break out of the patterns that cause them.

          Introduction
          First, though, let’s be clear about the situation we’re discussing: Every governing body
          has disagreements, and there’s nothing wrong with that. It would be strange, indeed, if all
          members agreed on all issues all the time. If that were the case, why would we even need
          five, seven, or nine members?
          Sometimes, disagreements create a residue of misunderstanding or hurt feelings, but that’s
          to be expected, too. Most governing body members are able to leave that residue behind
          and move on to the next matter at hand.
          We’re also not talking about the “outlier” issue, where one or some members of the
          governing body have made it their mission to separate themselves from the rest of the
          group, with the sole goal of embarrassing the rest and proving that they are the only
          “ethical,” “transparent,” or “responsive” (or insert description of your choice) member of the
          body, at least in their opinion. There are ways to address the “outlier” issue (see Chapter 3).
          What we’re talking about here is a governing body in a state that we can all agree is
          severely dysfunctional. We’re talking about a body that’s intractably divided, and whose
          every debate, discussion, and decision are characterized by lingering unresolved matters,
          mutual contempt, and hard feelings that calcify into hardline positions. We’re talking
          about meetings that staff and citizens refer to as the “Thursday night fights” (or insert
          evening of your choice). We’re talking about meetings where members regularly yell or
          snipe at each other, name-call, storm out, or maybe even resort to threats or fisticuffs.

                                                                                                            11



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 15                            6/4/2019 1:02:42 PM
          And even if it’s not that dramatic, meetings may still be characterized by tension, frustration,
          passive-aggressive behavior, an inability to see beyond the players and focus on the merits
          of any issue, and maybe an angry social media post or two after the meeting.
          Whatever the level of dysfunction, destructive consequences can result. Once you “write
          off ” or “demonize” your colleagues (“she’s just clueless,” “he’s completely hopeless,” “I can’t
          even look at the guy,” “there’s no reasoning with her, so why even bother”), there may be
          no coming back.

          Why Can’t We All Get Along? A Look at Some Possible Causes
                    “Happy families are all alike; every unhappy family is unhappy in its own way.”
                     ~Tolstoy
                    “Happy councils are all alike; every unhappy council is unhappy in its own way.”
                     ~Tanoue
          There are any number of reasons why the “marriage” of governing body members can go
          bad. Here are a few:
          Underlying divisions. Underlying divisions within the community may be reflected on
          the governing body. Communities can have fracture lines. There may be friction between
          the “old timer” part of the community and more newly developed areas that are full of
          “newcomers.” The interests of “old timers” and “newcomers” may not always be the same.
          “Newcomers” may not recognize the history and traditions of the community in the same
          way that “old timers” do. “Old timers” may discount the concerns raised by “newcomers,”
          or vice versa. These differences may be reflected in the makeup of the governing body.
          Members may have been swept into office as a result of a controversial issue that divided
          the community. Perhaps there was a recall election. Unless the slate was wiped clean, the
          governing body makeup may reflect the divisions that grew from the underlying issue. It
          may be difficult to get past that issue.
          New or younger members may clash with veteran members. Sentiments that “you young
          ‘uns haven’t been around long enough to understand this town” or “you old timers are
          stuck in your ways” may cause unwarranted rifts. And expressing or acting on such
          sentiments can contribute to a feeling that each member isn’t being accorded an equal
          voice in discussion and decision-making.
          That sense of inequality can also be the result of partisanship, and partisanship doesn’t
          necessarily have to spring from the type of political partisanship that exists at other levels
          of government. Of course, municipal government is avowedly and proudly non-partisan
          in the political sense (and by law its elections are non-partisan). But an “in crowd” and
          an “out crowd” based on other considerations can be a type of partisanship that’s just as
          problematic.
          Personalities. Voters aren’t judging whether the individuals they elect will be compatible
          with each other, so it’s possible that fundamentally incompatible personalities will end up
          on the body. If you have some “alpha dogs” on the body who are in constant competition,
          friction might be a predictable result. If others then line up behind their favorite “alpha,”
          division can ensue. If several “alphas” dominate the meetings, resentments may arise.
     12        CHAPTER 2



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 16                                 6/4/2019 1:02:42 PM
          Sometimes, an elected official’s personality and proclivities seem to be just plain
          incompatible with holding elected office! Politics, at the governing body level, has to
          be a team sport: decision-making requires collaboration and consensus. One member’s
          “agenda” can become the “agenda” of the body only by successful team play. A “lone wolf ”
          who lacks the capacity or desire to be a team member is not going to be successful on the
          body. Add a few more “lone wolfs,” and frustration and paralysis may result.
          Governance is also about leadership. If the voters put someone in office who is afraid
          to take a stand, is perennially “on the fence,” or is strictly a follower, leadership qualities
          may be lacking. A majority of non-leaders can create a perception of a “rubber stamp”
          governing body, resulting in extreme frustration for those members who are willing to
          stick their necks out.
          Preconceived personal agenda. There are many good reasons why citizens run for public
          office. However, the workings of municipal government are not always clear until well
          after you’re seated. So the agenda that a candidate ran on may collide with reality, and
          turn out not to be a workable agenda after all. Under those circumstances, clinging to
          the preconceived agenda is only going to sow the seeds of discord. If you have several
          members, each bent on pursuing only his or her own particular agenda, a fractured body
          can result.
          I once spoke with a newly elected councilmember who said his one campaign promise was
          to ensure that water and sewer rates were lowered. But when he took office, he began to
          understand the economic realities of operating the town’s water and sewer system, and he
          saw that demanding the lowering of rates was unrealistic and fiscally irresponsible. He said
          he had some explaining to do to the citizens, but he wasn’t going to cling to his agenda
          given the realities he now understood. That’s a smart elected official.

          Impacts
          The impacts of severe dysfunction and discord are manifold. They include:
                    • Lack of productivity. The body’s agenda may hit a standstill. Or getting through it
                      might be slow and painful. Even if decisions are made, they may not necessarily be
                      the best decisions.
                    • Power transfer to tie-breaker. If you’re constantly split down the middle, then
                      you may be transferring all decision-making power to the tie-breaker (often the
                      Mayor). Is that desirable?
                    • Financial consequences. If you’ve developed a public reputation as a
                      dysfunctional body, then your community may be missing out on economic
                      opportunities. Businesses want a predictable environment. Volatility may be
                      driving them away.
                    • Public embarrassment and loss of public confidence. If you’re airing your
                      discord for the camera, your viewership may be up, but public confidence will be
                      down! Residents want to be confident that their elected leaders function at a high
                      level and in their best interests.
                    • Driving away the best and brightest. I’ve heard people say they were reluctant
                      to run for office because they witnessed the discord and didn’t want to be a part
                                                                                                               13



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 17                                6/4/2019 1:02:42 PM
                      of it. So you may end up repelling, not attracting, potential leaders who could
                      make great contributions to the community. Or you may lose great members to
                      “burnout.” Likewise, if your community’s developed a reputation for governing
                      body dysfunction, you may not be able to attract and keep the “best and brightest”
                      for key staff positions.

          So You Think You May be Part of a Dysfunctional Governing Body?
          You may have experienced some jolts of recognition in reviewing the foregoing. If so,
          condolences and congratulations! The condolences are self-evident, but congratulations
          are also due, because recognition of a problem is the first step to dealing with it! So now,
          what do you do? Here are some steps to consider:
                    • See if you can gain a consensus that there’s a problem. Even if you recognize it,
                      if no one else does, you’re not going to get anywhere. If there’s a consensus, then
                      you’re halfway to solving the problem!
                    • Start by talking about “values.” In working with CIRSA members experiencing
                      severe governing body dysfunction, I’ve begun to realize that the “values”
                      discussion is a critical first step. By “values,” I’m talking about the philosophical
                      underpinnings that you want as guides for behavior in your interactions with one
                      another. If you can agree on these values, then additional steps are possible. If you
                      can’t, you’re going to stall out. Such values might include:
                                • Courtesy and civility towards one another, staff, and citizens?
                                • Non-partisanship?
                                • Equality of participation? This would include equal opportunities to
                                  be part of the discussion and decision, and equal opportunities to gain,
                                  insofar as possible, the same information at the same time as needed for
                                  good decision-making.
                                • Acknowledgement of the role of the Mayor or presiding officer in
                                  presiding over meetings? Every meeting needs a presiding officer, and in
                                  most communities, that’s the Mayor. The role of the presiding officer must
                                  be honored if you want to have orderly, productive, and efficient meetings.
                                  And, the presiding officer must embrace that responsibility. If there’s no
                                  acknowledgement of this fundamental need, then you won’t get anywhere.
                                • Engagement? This includes a commitment to be prepared for meetings,
                                  to arrive on time, to stay for the whole meeting, to give your undivided
                                  attention during the meeting, to participate in decision-making, and to be
                                  absent no more than necessary.
                                • Others?
                    • Norms or rules of conduct. If you can form a consensus around values, you’re
                      close to the point where you can discuss (and, it’s hoped, agree upon) the norms
                      or rules of conduct that you want for the body. The content of your norms or
                      rules won’t be discussed here, because they’ll be specific to your community and
                      the values that serve as the jumping-off point for them. It’s worthwhile to look at

     14        CHAPTER 2



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 18                                 6/4/2019 1:02:42 PM
                      examples from other communities around the state and nation, but it’s important
                      to develop your own norms or rules from the ground up with your values as
                      the foundation, so there’s buy-in. Why rules OR norms? It’s because the level
                      of formality to be accorded really depends on your governing body’s needs and
                      desires. If you have members whose attitude is “Rules? We don’t need no stinkin’
                      rules,” then perhaps a softer approach of agreeing on “norms” of conduct may be
                      a good starting point. On the other hand, you might see reasons to elevate the
                      adoption process by using a resolution or even an ordinance.

          In Despair? You Can Still Help
          You may feel your governing body will never come together to recognize the problem,
          much less move on towards seeking solutions. Should you give up? No! There are still
          things you can do as an individual. If enough individuals on the body do these things,
          then perhaps there will be an opening to go further! Suggestions for individuals include:
                    • Assume good faith and best intentions on the part of everyone on the body.
                      Some smart person once said that we judge ourselves by our intentions, and
                      others solely by their actions. This perceptual gap can lead to misunderstandings
                      and unfounded assumptions. Let’s give everyone the same benefit of the doubt
                      we give ourselves, by assuming that they, too, are acting on the basis of honorable
                      intentions.
                    • Listen more than you talk. Do your best to see and understand things from the
                      perspective of others. Ask questions before reaching your own conclusions, and
                      repeat back what you think you’re hearing from others, so that you know you’re
                      on the same page. Listen for points of agreement, and emphasize and build on
                      them.
                    • Try to meet others more than halfway. If everyone only goes so far to try
                      to bridge the gaps, then you may never meet in the middle. Sometimes one
                      person’s generosity in going more than halfway is the catalyst for breaking down
                      misunderstandings.
                    • Use the postures, tone, and body language of respect and engagement. Do this
                      even if you’re not “feeling it”; “acting as if ” can be helpful in bringing a hoped-
                      for harmony closer to reality. Make sure your body language and tone of voice
                      aren’t inadvertently communicating something you didn’t intend. Keep your voice
                      DOWN, even if others are starting to yell. Avoid the hair-trigger, knee-jerk, angry
                      response.
                    • Try some things to break down barriers. Maybe switch up positions where you
                      sit on the dais. Suggest a pre-meeting dinner; breaking bread together can be a
                      way to get people talking (make sure you have a “no-business” rule in effect).
                      Team-building, especially in a retreat setting, can be productive. An outside
                      facilitator or mediator might be helpful in identifying issues that are hard to see
                      from the “inside.”




                                                                                                              15



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 19                               6/4/2019 1:02:42 PM
                    • If you’re an experienced member, mentor the newbies! You have valuable
                      experience from which newer members can benefit. Show them the ropes, teach
                      them your own hard-earned lessons, and model the behaviors you want them to
                      emulate. And if you’re a new member, seek out mentors!
                    • Acknowledge and appreciate when you see others making the same effort.

          Conclusion: “Until Next Election Do You Part.”
          A governing body might be characterized as a kind of arranged marriage—a marriage
          arranged by the citizens. If the conditions for civil and productive discourse are lacking
          from the start, it’s no wonder that such a “marriage” can go bad quickly. But divorce isn’t
          an option! So start looking at ways to improve your relationships, as individuals and as
          a body. And take to heart the idea that, by “acting as if,” your deepest hope for a strong,
          high-functioning team can come closer to becoming a reality.




     16        CHAPTER 2



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 20                           6/4/2019 1:02:42 PM
                                                           CHAPTER 3
                                          GOVERNING BODIES AND THE
                                             OUTLIER SYNDROME
                                           By: Tami A. Tanoue, CIRSA Executive Director




          Those who have been working with municipalities for an extended period have observed
          a phenomenon that occurs at the governing body level. Let’s call this phenomenon the
          Outlier Syndrome.
          The Outlier is the “lone wolf ” who sits on a city council or board of trustees and
          steadfastly refuses to act like a member of the team. Even while isolating himself or herself
          as the only person on the losing side of just about every vote, the Outlier manages to create
          havoc with the rest of the body. The Outlier may be obstreperous and obstructionist. The
          Outlier may refuse to recognize and respect the norms that guide the rest of the body’s
          conduct. The Outlier may position himself or herself as the only “ethical” or “transparent”
          member of the body. The Outlier’s every statement and action seems to be aimed at
          preserving that self-assumed distinction rather than making any concrete achievements.
          Sometimes, a governing body is unfortunate enough to have more than one Outlier.
          Have you ever experienced the Outlier Syndrome in action? We call it a syndrome because
          of the recognizable features or symptoms that seem to fester whenever an Outlier sits on a
          governing body. Do you have an Outlier on your governing body? Could you possibly be
          an Outlier? Should the Outlier Syndrome be viewed as an affliction or malady? And if so,
          what can be done? We’ll explore these questions in more detail below.

          Power, Goals, and the Outlier
          To understand the Outlier’s impact on a governing body, let’s start with the idea that
          elected officials can only act as part of a body – a collaborative decision-making body. You
          can search throughout the laws governing statutory municipalities, or just about any home
          rule charter, and you’ll likely find no powers or duties that are to be exercised by a singular
          elected official (other than the mayor, who may have certain defined responsibilities). This
          means that, as elected officials, the only way you can get anything accomplished is to have
          a majority of the governing body on your side.
          It’s likely that each elected official has an individual list of goals, goals that those who voted
          for you want you to accomplish. But your goals can be accomplished only if they’re part of
          the goals of the body as a whole. That means your success depends on creating a consensus
                                                                                                               17



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 21                               6/4/2019 1:02:42 PM
          of the majority! And where does the Outlier fit in on a collaborative decision-making
          body? Why, nowhere! Perpetually being on the losing side of a vote means that the Outlier
          gets nowhere on his or her goals…unless, of course, he or she feels that being an Outlier is
          its own reward.

          Are You an Outlier?
          Perhaps you’ve met your share of Outliers, who tend to share one or more of these
          characteristics:
                    • There is an element of the lone crusader in them. They feel they were elected to
                      shake up the status quo in some way. Maybe they think their predecessors were
                      too cozy with developers, not friendly enough with the business community, too
                      close to the municipality’s staff, not close enough to the municipality’s staff, etc.
                    • They view themselves as independent thinkers. They are often highly intelligent,
                      but not “people persons.” In kindergarten, their report cards might have reflected
                      a poor score on “plays well with others.”
                    • They take a perverse glee in being the “outsider,” relish arguments for argument’s
                      sake, and place little value on matters like courtesy and regard for the feelings of
                      others.
                    • They hate having to endure “soft” discussions such as a council or board retreat,
                      the establishment of a mission or vision statement, the development of consensus
                      around rules of procedure or rules of conduct, a session to discuss goals and
                      priorities, or a CIRSA liability training session.
                    • They feel they are always right, and everyone else is always wrong. They feel they
                      are always ethical, and everyone else is not. They feel they are looking out for the
                      citizens, and everyone else is not.
                    • Initially, they may just have been unfamiliar with the ways of local government,
                      and needed to build the skills to work effectively in a new environment. One
                      or more gaffes may have caused them to be pegged as Outliers and treated
                      accordingly, initiating an unhealthy Outlier dynamic.
                    • There may have been some explosive moments in private or public with the
                      Outlier’s colleagues, or indeed, the colleagues may have made some attempt at an
                      “intervention.”
          These observations may or may not be totally on the mark. But one characteristic of the
          Outlier cannot be denied: he or she is seldom on the prevailing side of a vote, and is often
          at loggerheads with the rest of the body.
          Do you think you may be an Outlier? If so, you might examine what your goals as an
          elected official really are. Do you want to have a list of concrete accomplishments at
          the end of your term? Or will it be accomplishment enough to have been the “loyal
          opposition”? If the former, then your behavior may be working at cross-purposes with
          your goals. If the latter, really? Will the people who voted for you be satisfied with that
          accomplishment? Will you?


     18        CHAPTER 3



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 22                                6/4/2019 1:02:43 PM
          Is the Outlier a Problem for the Rest of the Body? For the
          Municipality?
          Most people who’ve had to deal with an Outlier would say that yes, the Outlier is a
          problem! How? Well, here are some ways:
                    • Anger and frustration build when a council or board has to deal with an Outlier,
                      siphoning away energy that could be spent on more positive endeavors. This
                      is a particular problem if tensions have built to the point that confrontations
                      have begun to occur. No reasonable person wants to attend or view a council
                      meeting and have a hockey game break out! It may be entertaining, but mostly, it’s
                      embarrassing to the governing body and to the community.
                    • Healthy teams seek to build a sense of camaraderie and cohesiveness. That’s not
                      entirely possible when there’s an Outlier. It’s not healthy to build a team around
                      a shared hatred of one of its own members, and most reasonable people would
                      prefer not to have that happen.
                    • The Outlier’s perspective tends to be oppositional. From a liability standpoint,
                      such a perspective is risky. If you’re taking positions on an oppositional basis,
                      are you really meeting your fiduciary duty to look out for the best interests of the
                      entity?
                    • A disharmonious governing body is a dysfunctional governing body. It’s been
                      CIRSA’s experience that liability claims thrive in an environment of disharmony
                      and dysfunction.
                    • Your staff members are affected by the Outlier Syndrome, too. From the staff ’s
                      perspective, seeing dysfunction on the governing body is a little like watching
                      discord between one’s own parents. It’s unsettling, distressing, and morale-
                      crushing.
                    • Most importantly, it’s a shame for the governing body to lose a potentially valuable
                      contributing member. In a worst case scenario, the Outlier becomes completely
                      disempowered as he or she is ignored and marginalized. But this means that the
                      body isn’t running on all cylinders, and is deprived of the valuable perspectives
                      that the Outlier might otherwise bring. Ultimately, the voters, and the community,
                      are the losers.

          Dealing with the Outlier Syndrome
          You can’t cure an affliction until you recognize it. And you can’t recognize what you
          haven’t named and defined. If your municipality is afflicted with Outlier Syndrome, you’ve
          taken the first steps towards a cure by naming, defining, and recognizing it! Here are some
          other steps you might consider.
                    • Confront the issue forthrightly and compassionately in a neutral environment. A
                      council or board meeting is likely not a neutral environment! Perhaps the matter
                      could be discussed as one item on a retreat agenda. Be prepared with specific
                      examples of how the Outlier has negatively impacted the body.


                                                                                                              19



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 23                               6/4/2019 1:02:43 PM
                    • Consider addressing the issue in the context of a larger discussion about
                      governing body rules of procedure or rules of conduct. The “norms” that guide
                      members’ interactions with one another may be obvious to some but not all,
                      especially to newer members. Those norms could be part of the discussion, and
                      the process of articulating them can facilitate a consensus to honor them.
                    • Consider bringing in an outside facilitator to assist you. A governing body is a bit
                      like a marriage that’s been arranged for you by the citizens! There’s nothing wrong
                      with getting some outside help for perspective and to find solutions.
          If you think you might have the Outlier label pinned on you, consider these suggestions:
                    • First, get a reality check. Find out how you’re being perceived by your peers. It
                      may be very different from your own perception of yourself. Ask each of your
                      colleagues to give you a frank assessment.
                    • Check your motivations. If you have concrete goals you want to accomplish as an
                      elected official, you must accept that success in your position can’t happen without
                      collaboration and consensus building. There is nothing that you can accomplish
                      alone. So set a goal to be on the “prevailing” side…indeed to bring others over to
                      establish a “prevailing” side.
                    • If you’ve already burned some bridges, understand consensus-building can’t
                      happen without mutual trust, respect, and a sense of cohesion. These will take time
                      to build. Look for a retreat or other opportunities to clear the air and start fresh.
                    • Use staff as a resource! Your manager or administrator wants nothing more than
                      to assist newly elected officials in learning the ropes, and understanding the best
                      time, place, and approach to raising issues. Don’t get off on the wrong foot with
                      blunders that might peg you as an Outlier.
          What if all efforts to deal with the Outlier Syndrome fail? Well, it might be time for the
          rest of the governing body to cut its losses and move on. Don’t continue to agonize over
          the Outlier and his or her impact on the body’s functioning. Continue to accord the
          Outlier the same opportunities to participate in discussion and decision-making as any
          other member, but don’t allow the Outlier to keep pushing your buttons. Remember,
          arguments and confrontations require more than one participant. You may need to simply
          say “thank you” or move on to the next point of discussion. Ultimately, the responsibility
          for putting an Outlier into office rests with the citizens, so there’s only so much you can
          do. Try to go about your business without having the Outlier become the dysfunctional
          center around which the rest of you swirl.

          Conclusion
          Governing body members don’t all have to be in lockstep, or think and behave in the
          same way. On the contrary, diversity of thinking, styles, opinions, experiences, and
          approaches are healthy and necessary for a collaborative decision-making body. There is
          truly a collective wisdom that comes forth when many diverse minds work together on
          common goals. But the Outlier Syndrome is detrimental to a high-functioning governing
          body, and therefore, to the community. If your governing body is afflicted with the Outlier
          Syndrome, it’s time to do something about it!

     20        CHAPTER 3



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 24                               6/4/2019 1:02:43 PM
                                                           CHAPTER 4
                                      LIABILITY PROTECTIONS AND YOU
                                         By: Tami A. Tanoue, CIRSA Executive Director &
                                               Sam Light, CIRSA General Counsel




          Are you acquainted with the protections you have through your entity’s membership
          in the CIRSA property/casualty pool? In this chapter, we provide you with a brief
          introduction to the two key coverage parts of the liability policy that apply to you as
          elected officials of CIRSA member entities.1

          What Liability Coverages do We Have?
          General Liability and Auto Liability Coverage applies to claims for bodily injury,
          property damage, and auto liability, among others. This is the coverage part that pertains
          to most allegations of “hard” injuries, such as an allegation of physical injury to a person
          or to tangible property. Thus, for instance, this coverage part would respond for an auto
          accident while you’re driving your entity’s vehicle on public entity business. This coverage
          part also includes law enforcement liability coverage.
          Public Officials Liability Coverage applies to “wrongful acts” you are alleged to have
          committed. This coverage part applies to allegations of civil rights violations, improper
          activities concerning employment practices, and violations of federal and state law. Thus,
          for instance, this coverage part would respond when someone claims that he or she has
          suffered employment-related discrimination, harassment, or a violation of constitutional
          rights.

          Who’s Covered?
          “Covered Parties” under the policy include, of course, your entity as a member of CIRSA.
          Any elected or appointed official, trustee, director, officer, employee, volunteer, or judge
          of a CIRSA member is also considered a covered party. So is each governing body,
          board, commission, authority, or similar unit operated “by or under the jurisdiction of ”
          a member entity. Thus, elected officials, board and commission members, appointed
          officials, employees, and even authorized volunteers of your entity are all considered
          covered parties.



                                                                                                          21



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 25                           6/4/2019 1:02:43 PM
          What Limits of Coverage do We Have?2
                    • For general liability and law enforcement liability, the coverage limit is
                      $10,000,000 per claim/occurrence.
                    • For auto liability, the coverage limit is $5,000,000 million per claim/occurrence.
                    • For public officials’ liability, the coverage limit is $10,000,000 per claim/
                      occurrence, subject to an annual per-member aggregate of $10,000,000.
          Defense costs are included in these limits. There is also a member-selected deductible that
          applies to each claim/occurrence. Members have chosen deductibles that vary from $500
          to as much as $250,000 per claim/occurrence, so you should check with your own CIRSA
          contact to find out what your entity’s deductibles are.

          What Key Exclusions do We Need to be Concerned About?
          There are several exclusions of concern, and a few are highlighted here. These exclusions
          are universal in most liability policies.
          The “willful and wanton” exclusion is probably the exclusion of greatest concern to
          elected and other public officials. This exclusion applies to both coverage parts of the
          liability policy, and states that coverage does not apply to any loss arising out of the
          actions of any elected or appointed official, trustee, director, officer, employee, volunteer
          or judge of a member entity when such acts or omissions are deemed to be willful and
          wanton. And remember, you are a “Covered Party” only while in the performance of your
          duties for the member entity, and acting within the scope of your authorized duties for the
          member entity.
          As you probably know, the Colorado Governmental Immunity Act’s protections are lost
          when you are determined to have been acting outside the “scope of employment,” that
          is, outside the course and scope of your authorized duties as an elected official. But such
          conduct has a double consequence: the loss of your liability coverages through CIRSA.
          This is the reason that our public officials’ liability training places a heavy emphasis on
          the need to understand your “job description” as an elected official, and the need to stay
          within the parameters of that “job description.”
          Staying within the “scope of employment” is also important to lessening your risks of
          liability where federal civil rights claims are concerned. You probably know that, under
          42 U.S.C. Section 1983, you can be sued for a civil rights violation in your individual or
          official capacity. An individual capacity suit is one that alleges that you violated someone’s
          constitutional or other federally protected right while acting under the auspices of your
          public office. (An official capacity suit, on the other hand, is a suit against the entity,
          rather than you individually.) A finding of individual liability in a Section 1983 suit
          essentially means that you’ve violated a clearly established constitutional or statutory
          right of which a reasonable person should have been aware, and that your conduct was
          unreasonable. Such conduct can fall within the “outside the scope” exclusion; violating
          someone’s civil rights is likely not within the “job description.” Thus, elected officials need
          to be especially cautious about conduct that could be actionable as an intentional civil
          rights violation.


     22        CHAPTER 4



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 26                                 6/4/2019 1:02:43 PM
          The sexual harassment exclusion is another exclusion that has impacts on claims based
          on an individual official’s conduct. This exclusion to the Public Officials Liability coverage
          part applies to sexual harassment claims. Let’s say that a sexual harassment claim is
          made both against the entity, for failure to deal effectively with sexual harassment in the
          workplace, and against the harassing employee or volunteer. Under this exclusion, the
          entity will probably be covered. However, with respect to the individual official, employee,
          or volunteer, the entity will have the option to direct CIRSA to defend or not defend the
          individual. Thus, if the entity so directs, the individual will be left out in the cold as to any
          defense of a sexual harassment claim against him or her! And in any event, even if the
          entity directs CIRSA to provide a defense, any liability imposed on the individual based
          upon a finding that harassment occurred would not be covered through CIRSA. The
          sexual abuse exclusion operates in a similar fashion.
          The punitive or exemplary damages exclusion is also pertinent in the context of
          an individual official’s conduct. Punitive or exemplary damages can be awarded in
          circumstances where an individual’s conduct is willful and wanton in the disregard of
          someone’s rights, or callously indifferent or motivated by evil intent. The purpose of
          punitive damages is, as the term suggests, to punish a wrongdoer for such egregious
          conduct. Because the punitive effect would be considerably blunted if an insurer were
          available to cover a punitive damages award, punitive damages are deemed uninsurable
          by the appellate courts of many jurisdictions, including Colorado. Consistently with this
          judicial position, the CIRSA liability policy contains an express exclusion for punitive or
          exemplary damages.
          The breach of contract exclusion can be pertinent to the activities of governing bodies.
          Governing bodies approve a wide variety of contracts, and sometimes are alleged to have
          dishonored them. It is not the intent of a liability policy to cover the kinds of liability
          that can arise when someone alleges a breach of contract, so there is an exclusion for
          the breach of an express or implied contract. This exclusion does not apply when a
          claim is based upon an allegation by an official or employee of wrongful termination of
          employment.
          The condemnation/inverse condemnation exclusion can be relevant to a land use action
          taken by a governing body. A landowner may claim that all or a portion of his or her
          property was “taken” by governmental action, or that vested property rights were impaired
          by governmental action. These types of claims, involving the value of private property,
          are not covered. As you can imagine, liability policies aren’t suited to cover these types of
          claims, because they would require insurers to try to underwrite the risk of having to pay
          for the property values of privately owned real estate throughout the state!
          The bonds or taxes exclusion applies to any liability based upon or arising out of the
          issuance of bonds, securities, or other financial obligations, or taxes, fees, or assessments,
          or the collection, retention, or expenditure of funds. Thus, when a claim is made of an
          improperly levied tax, or retention of funds in violation of the Taxpayer’s Bill of Rights, or
          impropriety in the issuance of bonds or other financial obligations, this exclusion would
          apply.




                                                                                                              23



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 27                               6/4/2019 1:02:43 PM
          What Else Should You Know About Coverage Issues?
          A lawsuit against you may involve one of several responses from CIRSA. We may
          determine, based on the allegations, that we owe you an unconditional duty of defense
          (i.e., the assignment of a defense attorney) and indemnity (i.e., covering any judgment
          or settlement). Or we may determine that none of the allegations invoke any duty of
          defense or indemnity, and send you a denial letter. Sometimes, though, a suit will contain
          a mixture of covered claims and uncovered/potentially uncovered claims and, in this
          case, we will defend you under a “reservation of rights.” A “reservation of rights” letter
          will be sent telling you of the areas where there may be no coverage, and reserving our
          right not to indemnify you, and our right to terminate your defense (and potentially seek
          reimbursement of legal fees paid on your behalf) should circumstances warrant.
          One or more CIRSA defense counsel will be assigned in circumstances where we find
          that there is a duty to defend. In some cases, a single attorney can represent multiple
          defendants; however, in cases where defenses may be inconsistent between or among
          the covered parties, or other circumstances for a conflict of interest may exist in
          representation, we will assign multiple counsel. CIRSA-assigned defense attorneys,
          although paid by CIRSA, owe their duty of loyalty to you, their client.
          We hope that you never have to delve into the details of these coverages in the context of
          an actual claim against you, but it’s a good idea to be familiar with the broad outlines of
          those coverages. As always, if you have questions, please contact CIRSA.



          Footnotes:
          1. This is only a summary of certain provisions of the CIRSA liability coverage documents. The
             language of the applicable coverage document must be reviewed for a complete and accurate
             understanding of the applicable coverages, and the application of the coverage document to any
             specific situation will require the advice of your entity’s attorney.
          2. Please refer to the Declarations pages of the Liability Coverage form for more specific information
             on the limits and sublimits for all coverages.




     24        CHAPTER 4



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 28                                   6/4/2019 1:02:43 PM
                                                           CHAPTER 5
                          OPEN MEETINGS AND EXECUTIVE SESSIONS
                                         By: Tami A. Tanoue, CIRSA Executive Director &
                                               Sam Light, CIRSA General Counsel




          At CIRSA, we’ve seen a steady stream of claims against our members for alleged
          violations of the open meetings law in the conduct of meetings and executive sessions.
          These types of claims are usually excluded from most commercial insurance coverages.
          However, CIRSA provides some defense cost coverage for claims alleging executive
          session violations by governing bodies. In this chapter, we’ll go over the basics of the
          open meetings law and summarize CIRSA’s coverage for allegations of open meetings
          violations.

          The Open Meetings Law
          Under the Colorado open meetings law, C.R.S. Section 24-6-401 et seq. (COML), it is
          “the policy of this state that the formation of public policy is public business and may not
          be conducted in secret.” Note this statement’s focus on the formation of public policy.
          Thus, the law intends openness in the policymaking process, and councils and boards are
          well-served by honoring not only the letter of the COML but the spirit of this purpose
          statement.
          The core requirement of this law is that all meetings of a local public body (a term which
          includes the governing body and other formally constituted bodies of a public entity),
          at which public business is discussed or at which any formal action may be taken are
          declared to be public meetings open to the public at all times. “Full and timely notice”
          must be given of all meetings. The COML deems this requirement to have been met
          if notice of the meeting is posted at least 24 hours prior to the holding of the meeting;
          however, your charter or local ordinances may require posting further in advance. The
          notice shall include specific agenda information where possible. No action taken at a
          meeting is valid unless it meets the requirements of the open meetings law. A “meeting”
          under the open meetings law includes “any kind of gathering, convened to discuss public
          business, in person, by telephone, electronically, or by other means of communication.”
          There are a few exceptions to this core requirement of public openness, and a properly
          convened executive session may be held to discuss matters that fall into those exceptions.


                                                                                                          25



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 29                           6/4/2019 1:02:43 PM
          Some of the more commonly arising subjects that are proper matters for an executive
          session include:
                    • The purchase, acquisition, lease, transfer, or sale of any real, personal, or other
                      property interest;
                    • Conferences with an attorney for the local public body for the purposes of
                      receiving legal advice on specific legal questions;
                    • Certain personnel matters; and
                    • Determining positions on matters that may be subject to negotiations, developing
                      strategy for negotiations, and instructing negotiators.
          The open meetings law should be reviewed in its entirety for all of the applicable
          legal requirements, and legal advice should be obtained on its meaning. Home rule
          municipalities may have their own meeting and executive session procedures established
          pursuant to their home rule powers; this discussion is not intended to cover the variances
          in local practice in home rule municipalities.
          The “courts of record” of the state have jurisdiction to issue injunctions to enforce
          the purposes of the open meetings law. Any citizen of the state may apply for such an
          injunction. The open meetings law states that, in any case in which the court finds a
          violation of the law, the court shall award the citizen prevailing in such action his or her
          costs and reasonable attorney fees. In addition, a citizen may apply to the court for access
          to the record of an executive session; if the court determines, after listening to the record,
          that the local public body engaged in substantial discussion of any matters that were not
          proper subjects for an executive session, or took formal action while in executive session,
          then the record may be made accessible to the public.

          Executive Session Coverage Through CIRSA
          Defense costs coverage for executive session claims is provided to CIRSA property/
          casualty members by way of an amendment to the “non-monetary damages, fines or
          penalties” exclusion in the public officials liability section of the coverage document. This
          coverage is subject to the following terms:
                    • It applies only to reasonable attorney’s fees and reasonable and necessary costs
                      included in the defense of an action brought solely under C.R.S. Section 24-6-
                      402(9) of the open meetings law.
                    • It applies only to such an action brought against the member’s governing body;
                      subordinate boards and commissions holding executive sessions do not have this
                      coverage.
                    • It does not apply to any plaintiff ’s attorney fees or costs that are assessed against
                      the member as a result of losing such an action. Such fees and costs must be borne
                      by the member.
                    • There is a sublimit for this coverage that is shared with certain other non-
                      monetary defense coverages. The sublimit is $10,000 any one action, subject to a
                      $30,000 annual aggregate per member. The member deductible does not apply to
                      this coverage.
     26        CHAPTER 5



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 30                                 6/4/2019 1:02:43 PM
                    • Submitting an executive session claim to CIRSA is optional with the member; the
                      member may choose to defend such a claim itself. If a member wants to avail itself
                      of this coverage, the claim must be submitted to CIRSA, for handling by CIRSA-
                      assigned defense counsel, at the time of commencement of the action.

          A Few Suggestions
          The risks of open meetings violations can be greatly reduced by favoring transparency
          and using caution in cases of uncertainty. After all, the courts interpret the rules and
          will resolve doubts in favor of openness. Toward that end, elected and appointed officials
          should be cognizant of when their discussions will trigger open meetings requirements, so
          that violations can be avoided. To avoid claims of improper notice, a full meeting agenda
          should be timely posted, and the body and staff alike should avoid adding substantive
          items to the agenda at the meeting (as claims and distrust can result from such surprises).
          Of course, claims of executive session violations could be avoided entirely by never having
          an executive session! However, this may be an unrealistic goal because, as discussed above,
          there is a legitimate need for confidentiality in some matters. But consider the following:
                    • Hold executive sessions to the absolute minimum necessary to protect legitimately
                      confidential matters.
                    •Confirm with your city or town attorney that the proposed subject of the executive
                     session is authorized under the law. The statutory bases for having an executive
                     session are specific and narrowly construed, and bodies should resist efforts to
                     pound a square peg in a round hole in searching for authority where it does not
                     exist.
                    • Utilize an executive session “script” to help guide you in the proper procedures for
                      convening an executive session. CIRSA members may obtain a CIRSA sample by
                      contacting saml@cirsa.org.
                    • When participating in an executive session, be vigilant of yourself and others
                      to make sure that the discussion doesn’t stray from the specific subject that
                      was announced in the motion to go into executive session. Participants in the
                      executive session must commit to “stay on topic” and not stray from the specific
                      subject.
                    • Make sure you keep an electronic record of each executive session as required by
                      the open meetings law. The only exception to the recording rule is an executive
                      session for an attorney-client conference; these sessions should not be recorded.
                    • Stay out of the loop on personnel matters when feasible. One of the more
                      common reasons for holding an executive session is the discussion of a personnel
                      matter. However, if the employee who is the subject of the executive session so
                      demands, the discussion must be done in public. Moreover, personnel matters
                      that are not personal to a particular employee are not proper subjects for an
                      executive session (unless some other lawful basis for holding an executive session
                      applies). These and other complexities of the “personnel matters” basis for holding
                      an executive session can be avoided if your personnel policies have been set up in
                      a manner that delegates most personnel matters to your staff.

                                                                                                             27



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 31                              6/4/2019 1:02:43 PM
                    • If you have to take one of your own governing body members to the “woodshed,”
                      don’t do it in an executive session. Some years ago, the “personnel matters” basis
                      for holding an executive session was amended to state that executive sessions are
                      not permitted for discussions concerning any member of the local public body or
                      appointment of a person to fill a vacancy on the local public body. Thus, the idea
                      that the governing body can convene in executive session to discuss one of its own
                      members as a governing body “personnel matter,” is no longer viable.
                    • If the confidentiality of a matter is such that it warrants an executive session,
                      then be sure to honor that confidentiality once the executive session is over, until
                      and unless public discussion of the matter becomes legally permissible. Don’t
                      act outside the scope of your legal authority as an individual member of the
                      governing body to waive confidentiality on your own. If the executive session
                      concerns negotiations or other matters where some information will be shared
                      with third parties in follow up to the session, ask “Who are our spokespersons?”
                      and “What information will we share at this time?” and honor the answers arrived
                      at in the session.

          Conclusion
          Open meetings missteps are hard to overcome in terms of maintaining your constituents’
          trust in you. Further, each and every executive session your entity holds exacts a price
          in terms of expectations of open government and, if done improperly, can subject your
          entity to claims. By complying with the strict requirements of the open meetings law,
          keeping executive sessions to the minimum necessary, and observing all of the formalities
          for holding meetings and executive sessions, you can keep that price low and public
          confidence high.




     28        CHAPTER 5



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 32                              6/4/2019 1:02:44 PM
                                                           CHAPTER 6
                         ETHICAL CONDUCT IN LOCAL GOVERNMENT
                                                  By: Robert Widner, Widner Juran LLP




          Introduction
          Citizens have a right to expect ethical behavior from local government officials. In the
          municipal context, “ethical behavior” generally means the conduct of public business in a
          manner that will preserve or restore the public’s trust in government. In many instances,
          local government officials are unaware of the rules and guidelines governing their official
          behavior. This chapter outlines a basic regulatory framework for ethical behavior for local
          government officials and advocates on the premise that limited but enforceable local
          regulation is necessary to protect the public trust. The first part of this chapter focuses
          upon “what” ethical activity should be regulated at the local level. The second part focuses
          upon “how” local ethical standards should be enforced.

          Why Regulate Local Ethics?
          Both media stories and national studies of local government decision-making highlight
          the need for regulation of ethical behavior by local government officials. Unfortunately,
          ethical violations do occur at all levels of government and may range from the use of a
          public office to help a friend secure special treatment from the government to corruption,
          self-dealing, or just plain poor decision-making. Although the vast majority of public
          officials ably conduct official business without ethical missteps, a single publicized
          violation can cast a cloud upon the entire government organization and raise suspicion
          that other public officials are engaged in similar misconduct. Simply put, ethical violations
          erode public trust.
          Colorado state law attempts to describe appropriate standards of conduct for local
          government officials in Title 18, Article 24 of the Colorado Revised Statutes. The state
          law fails in many respects to articulate clearly the standards for ethical behavior or to
          define key statutory phrases, such as what constitutes “personal or private interest.” State
          law further fails to serve the needs of local government by delegating the enforcement
          of alleged local ethical violations to the local district attorney’s office. This delegation
          often proves ineffective as it requires district attorneys to divert their limited resources
          from the enforcement of criminal conduct to the investigation and enforcement of
                                                                                                           29



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 33                            6/4/2019 1:02:44 PM
          state misdemeanor ethical misconduct. Moreover, enforcement of statutory standards
          of conduct against elected public officials by elected district attorneys can—fairly or
          unfairly—lead observers to assume that politics, rather than justice, will dictate the
          outcome.
          In addition to state statutory law, in 2006 the Colorado voters enacted Amendment 41,
          a constitutional citizen initiative. Amendment 41 was codified into Article XXIX of the
          Colorado Constitution. The purpose of Article XXIX was to establish new statewide rules
          governing the receipt of gifts and other considerations by government officials. It also
          allows a state independent ethics commission to hear complaints, issue findings, and
          assess penalties in connection with ethics issues arising under Article XXIX and under
          any other state standards of conduct and reporting requirements. The state’s independent
          ethics commission has proven a less than effective means of addressing ethics at the local
          level due to lengthy hearing timelines and the need for local officials to defend conduct
          in a state tribunal located in Denver using state, and not locally, created and imposed
          ethics regulations. Of significant importance to the creation of local ethics regulation,
          Article XXIX includes an explicit exemption which limits the state’s independent ethics
          commission’s jurisdiction: Home rule municipalities that have enacted local ethics
          codes which address the topics of Article XXIX are not subject to the jurisdiction of the
          independent ethics commission.
          Municipalities may overcome these state statutory and constitutional shortcomings
          through local regulation and local enforcement of ethical behavior. Effective local
          regulation of public officials’ ethics necessarily involves two distinct elements. The first is
          a set of clearly written directives identifying what constitutes unacceptable or unethical
          behavior. The second is a process for enforcing the written directives in a reasonable, fair,
          and efficient manner.1

          What Should be Regulated?
          The most common problems with local rules of ethical conduct are vagueness and
          overbreadth. Sweeping general statements such as “city officials should comport
          themselves at all times in a professional manner” are too vague to help either the officials
          or their constituents understand what is and is not acceptable. Likewise, regulations that
          attempt to set standards for the officials’ personal life may seem admirable, but are really
          beyond the scope of good ethical regulation. Consequently, any set of ethical regulations
          should focus on the conduct of public officials while performing their public duties and
          should be specific enough to clearly define what constitutes an ethical violation.
          Engaging in criminal conduct while in the course of one’s public responsibilities should
          always be an ethical violation. However, criminal acts committed by public officials
          outside of their official role and in their private capacity are best left to local law
          enforcement or, as discussed below, the public’s right of recall. It may be true that a public
          official’s criminal activity unrelated to public office can still undermine public trust, but if
          your ethical code provides that “any felony or misdemeanor criminal activity” committed
          by a public official constitutes an ethical violation, are you prepared to sanction a board or
          council member who receives a jaywalking ticket?
          A criminal act committed by a public official in his private life will typically only call into
          question the qualifications of that particular public official to serve the public. To that end,
     30        CHAPTER 6



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 34                              6/4/2019 1:02:44 PM
          state law provides a remedy in the right of recall, a process by which the voters can decide
          whether that individual should continue to serve. Local ethical regulations, however,
          should avoid putting members of the municipal governing body in the role of overseeing
          and enforcing the private activities of one of their own.
          It is also customary, and a good idea, for local ethics regulations to incorporate as an
          ethical violation any failure of the public official to adhere to important provisions of
          the municipal charter or ordinances, such as provisions that prohibit elected officials’
          interference with the city manager’s supervisory role over city employees. In addition,
          ethics regulations should prohibit:
                    • the intentional disclosure of confidential governmental information;
                    • the acceptance of gifts of substantial value;
                    • the misuse of public resources or public equipment; and
                    • engaging in contractual relationships for the personal benefit of the public official
                      and/or the official’s relatives or any business in which the official has an interest.
          In summary, local ethical regulations should prohibit the conduct that will most directly
          impair the public’s trust in the local government organization as a whole. If drafted with
          appropriate attention to specificity, effective local regulation will put public officials on
          notice of precisely what constitutes inappropriate behavior related to their public service,
          and will clearly inform constituents of what is expected of their local representatives.
          Accompanying the regulations should be well-defined steps for disclosure and recusal in
          circumstances giving rise to conflicts of interest. Finally, local codes should include terms
          and phrases designed to avoid vagueness and ambiguity.

          How Should Ethics Codes be Enforced?
          Ethics regulations effectively inform officials what conduct is permitted and prohibited
          in public service. However, without a means to enforce the ethical requirements, the
          regulations become largely meaningless.
          Creating a process to enforce ethical regulations requires careful thought. Ensuring that
          the regulations are enforced fairly is a paramount concern. Fair enforcement is fostered
          when regulations clearly articulate the requirements and expectations of every step of
          the enforcement action. Where a step is optional, such as whether an investigation of the
          ethics complaint will be performed, the criteria and procedures for determining whether
          the step will be employed should be clearly identified and followed. The regulations
          should contemplate the need for issuing subpoenas for documents and compelling witness
          testimony and attendance.
          The typical process will include a complaint, the identification of the hearing body or
          hearing officer, an initial review, investigation, a hearing, a decision and, if appropriate, a
          penalty.

          Complaint
          The initiation of the process to enforce an ethical standard should require a written
          complaint or allegation of unethical conduct. The form of the written complaint is

                                                                                                               31



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 35                                6/4/2019 1:02:44 PM
          important. The person charged with unethical conduct has a right to know what conduct
          is alleged to have violated the ethical rules.
          At a minimum, the complaint should include a detailed description of the action alleged
          to have violated the rules and citation to the ethical rules alleged to be violated by such
          conduct. Requiring the complaining party to verify or certify under penalty of perjury
          or other sanction that the allegations are truthful may aid in preventing complaints that
          are merely intended to harass or which might be politically motivated. Once received,
          the complaint must be must formally delivered or served upon the person alleged to have
          violated the rules.

          Hearing Body or Officer
          A critical decision for any ethical enforcement action is the selection of the appropriate
          hearing body or officer to hear the allegations, render a decision, and impose a penalty,
          if appropriate. The enforcement regulations should identify the process for selection,
          composition, and qualifications of the hearing body or hearing officer. The options are
          numerous. The hearing body might, for example, be composed of the entire governing
          body of the local government, a governing body subcommittee, a citizen ethics board, or
          an independent hearing officer. Moreover, the decision of the hearing body or officer can
          be considered advisory and made subject to final review and ratification by the governing
          body.
          Each option presents advantages and disadvantages. The elected governing body is a
          logical selection when judging the conduct of its fellow members or public servants
          due to its role as representing the citizens who demand ethical action by government.
          However, selecting the governing body or individual members of the governing body risks
          injecting elements of political favoritism into the ethics process, and raises complications
          where other members are necessary witnesses to facts alleged in the complaint. Similarly,
          while citizen members have a direct interest in ethical governmental action, citizens can
          oftentimes be politically aligned with elected officials or lack the experience to understand
          the allegations in the context of public service. Individual hearing officers, while perhaps
          free of any political motivations, may lack accountability to the citizens.

          Initial Review
          A preliminary or initial review of the complaint may be a beneficial step. A complaint
          may fail to assert any actions by the public servant that constitute an ethical misstep
          or may assert actions that are unrelated to the servant’s public duties. In addition, a
          complaint may, on its face, be submitted for the sole purpose of harassing the public
          servant. At a preliminary review, the hearing body or officer can elect to dismiss the
          complaint, thereby saving the local government time and money in processing spurious
          or specious allegations. Any decision to dismiss the complaint should be made in writing
          and provided to the complaining party and the person against whom the allegations were
          raised.




     32        CHAPTER 6



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 36                           6/4/2019 1:02:44 PM
          Investigation
          For some but not all complaints, an investigation might be warranted. If warranted and
          approved by the hearing body or officer, the investigation should be undertaken by an
          independent and neutral party. This investigation might involve the interview of witnesses
          and review of the evidence, and may culminate in a written summary of disputed and
          undisputed facts relevant to the issues to be decided by the hearing body or officer.

          Hearing
          For complaints that warrant prosecution, a hearing should be held to consider the
          complaint. In some circumstances, the hearing may include a preliminary stage whereby
          the hearing body or officer reviews the investigative report and, if appropriate, may
          elect to dismiss the allegations if the investigation established that the evidence does not
          support a finding of wrongdoing. Conducted in a manner similar to a judicial proceeding,
          the hearing should permit the presentation of evidence to support the allegations of
          unethical conduct and an opportunity to provide a defense against the allegations. The
          local government may employ a prosecutor to present the allegations and evidence. Any
          decision by the hearing body or officer should be made in writing to ensure an adequate
          record and formally conclude the proceeding.

          Decision and Penalty
          In the event that the hearing body or officer finds a violation of the ethical standards, a
          penalty may be in order. Obviously, the severity of the penalty can vary depending upon
          the seriousness of the violation. Penalties may range from a simple letter of admonition or
          censure, to removal of the public servant from certain duties or responsibilities, to more
          drastic action including removal from elective office.
          It is exceedingly rare for ethical violations to result in a monetary fine. A monetary fine
          or action to void a contract resulting from unethical conduct is most appropriate where
          the ethical violation caused probable financial harm to the community. These types of
          violations are best prosecuted by the district attorney under the public trust provisions of
          state law.
          Importantly, removal from office is a power best reserved for the governing body which
          holds the power of removal pursuant to the charter (for home rule municipalities) or state
          statutes (for statutory cities and towns). Moreover, it is important to acknowledge that
          elected officials remain accountable to the citizens and are subject to recall from office
          should their constituents feel the ethical standards of their official are lacking. For that
          reason, removal from office should be considered only in the most egregious cases.




          Footnote:
          1. Many home rule and statutory municipalities in Colorado have adopted local ethics regulations,
             ranging from comprehensive charter provisions and ordinances to a few local supplements to state
             law. CIRSA members can obtain examples of local ethics ordinances by contacting saml@cirsa.org.


                                                                                                                33



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 37                                6/4/2019 1:02:44 PM
     34



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 38   6/4/2019 1:02:44 PM
                                                           CHAPTER 7
                                 HARASSMENT ISSUES: WHAT ELECTED
                                     OFFICIALS NEED TO KNOW
                                           By: Tami A. Tanoue, CIRSA Executive Director




          Introduction
          Harassment allegations have been a media fixture for the past few years, as the “me too”
          movement spreads across the world of entertainment, media, the corporate sector, and
          even into federal, state, and local government.
          In municipal government, many of us feel like seasoned veterans in dealing with
          harassment issues. At least in the employment arena, we know how to deal with
          harassment. We have the policies in place, and we take them seriously. We do regular
          training on the issues. We know how to undertake a fair and credible investigation when
          allegations surface, and we understand the need to impose appropriate consequences for
          well-founded allegations.
          But now, harassment issues are surfacing at the level of governing bodies and elected
          officials. Like an unexpected virus variant, this permutation has left some municipalities
          unprepared to deal with the consequences. The results have included ineffective responses,
          public embarrassment, and loss of public confidence.

          Why Should You Care About Harassment Issues at Your Level?
          You might be thinking that the governing body working environment is not the same
          as the employee workplace. You’re all co-equals, elected by and accountable only to the
          voters. The people “hired” you, and the people are the only ones who should be able to
          “fire” you. You each got into this voluntarily for the love of your municipality, and not as
          your livelihood, and those who can’t stand the heat should get out of the kitchen. Right?
          Well, wrong! Let’s start by looking at your place in the municipal organization. You’re at
          the very top of the organizational chart and the chain of command. As such, you are a key
          influencer of the organizational climate. A recent study concludes that the organizational
          climate is the most potent predictor of harassment in the workplace!1 You’re setting the
          tone for how people throughout the organization interact with one another. If the tone
          you set is disrespectful, inhumane, or dysfunctional, then that behavior will be modeled
          and replicated throughout the organization! Do you want that?

                                                                                                           35



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 39                            6/4/2019 1:02:44 PM
          Another reason you should care: the higher up in the organization a harassment issue
          surfaces, the more difficult it is to deal with. Because of legal requirements and public
          expectations for transparency, you must necessarily conduct most of your work in public.
          If you think that a harassment allegation at your level can be dealt with behind closed
          doors, you may be disappointed.
          Also, the consequence for a well-founded allegation of harassment isn’t straightforward
          when it comes to an elected official. How is an elected official to be “disciplined” by his
          or her peers? Concepts such as “corrective action up to and including termination” don’t
          necessarily translate well when applied to elected officials.
          And assuming you’ve laid out a process for dealing such allegations, who gets involved in
          that process? Those in the administrative team who normally provide you with support,
          advice, and assistance may well say, “sorry, this is above my pay grade,” requiring you to go
          outside your organization, at great expense, for help.

          Policies, Legal Definitions, Civil Liability Laws, and Their Limitations
          The definition of “harassment” differs from policy to policy. One common factor, though,
          is that harassment generally must be “severe or pervasive” in order to constitute a policy
          violation. The “severe or pervasive” standard is consistent with the U.S. Equal Employment
          Opportunity Commission’s (EEOC) view of offensive conduct that violates Title VII of
          the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, or
          the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990: the conduct must be severe enough that
          enduring the offensive conduct “becomes a condition of continued employment”; or must
          be “severe or pervasive” enough to create a work environment that a reasonable person
          would consider intimidating, hostile, or abusive.2
          Thus, policies, as well as civil rights laws affording protection from harassment, set a
          high bar for liability. A common question, then, becomes: “well, if my conduct is short of
          ‘severe or pervasive,’ there’s no problem, right?” Stated differently, if someone’s behaving
          badly, but the behavior doesn’t quite hit the high bar for a policy violation or for civil
          liability, does that make the conduct acceptable?
          Another form of liability is criminal culpability. How often have you heard someone
          justifying their bad behavior in this way: “Well, I haven’t committed any conduct that
          could be described as criminal.” Does that make the conduct OK?
          Let’s think about this! In any other aspect of your work as a public official, is the standard
          for acceptable conduct this low? When it comes to ethical or conflict of interest issues, for
          example, would we be able to get by with a low bar like “well, just don’t commit a crime,”
          or “just don’t expose yourself or our municipality to civil liability”? No! Municipal officials
          pride themselves in meeting the highest standards of conduct when it comes to ethical
          issues or conflicts of interest. So why should we set such a low bar for the way we behave
          towards one another?
          And here’s another critical issue. Harassment laws are generally aimed at employment
          matters: employee-employee issues, supervisor-employee relationships, employer-
          employee responsibilities, and the like. These laws aren’t designed for issues between
          elected officials, who aren’t employees, aren’t accountable to an employer, and are beyond

     36        CHAPTER 7



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 40                             6/4/2019 1:02:44 PM
          the reach of common workplace remedies like termination, suspension, demotion, etc.
          Thus, you’ll run across investigations of elected officials’ conduct that might reach a
          conclusion along these lines: “The allegation of a hostile work environment based on
          sexual harassment was unfounded. This conclusion is reached because the Civil Rights Act
          of 1964 does not apply to elected officials.” But, does that make the conduct acceptable?
          Should exposure to civil liability be the standard by which conduct is gauged?
          Most reasonable people would not live their lives by the guideline, “I’m OK as long as
          I avoid civil or criminal liability.” We would want to hold ourselves to a much higher
          standard! And, as leaders, we certainly wouldn’t want to model such a low bar for the rest
          of the organization. So let’s ditch the legal parsing. Let’s focus away from the “h” word,
          harassment. Let’s not spend too much time arguing over definitions. What we need to do
          is to confront and articulate the expectations we should have for ourselves, and for our
          colleagues, in the environment in which we operate.

          Risk Factors for Harassment
          The EEOC has been doing some interesting work around harassment issues in recent
          years. Risk factors have been identified that, if present, increase the likelihood that there
          will be harassment issues in the workplace. You can view the complete list on the EEOC’s
          website,3 but some of the risk factors include:
                    • Homogeneity – lack of diversity, “currently only one minority among us.”
                    • Workplaces where some employees don’t conform to workplace norms – “rough
                      and tumble” or single-sex dominated workplace culture.
                    • Cultural and language differences – arrival of new personnel with different
                      cultures or nationalities; segregation of personnel with different cultures or
                      nationalities.
                    • Workplaces with “high value” personnel.
                    • Workplaces that rely on customer service or client satisfaction.
          Could any of these factors apply to your governing body? For example, if diversity in
          terms of gender, race, ethnicity, age, and other factors is a new phenomenon on your
          governing body, then one might expect misunderstandings and gaffes to occur. Certainly,
          elected officials are “high value” personnel within the organization; there’s no one higher
          in the org chart than you! And most municipalities pride themselves on a high degree of
          customer service and customer satisfaction. These are all things to be proud of—but they
          are also factors for the presence of harassment issues.

          So, What Can We Do?
          If you’ve read this far, congratulations! You’re more than halfway towards dealing with
          these complex issues in a positive and successful way. The recent work of the EEOC
          includes a recognition that a “committed and engaged leadership” is one of the most
          important factors in preventing and addressing harassment.4 So the fact that you, as an
          organizational leader, care about this issue is a great thing in itself.


                                                                                                                 37



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 41                                  6/4/2019 1:02:44 PM
          First, take a look at the prevailing culture on the governing body. Are old ways of
          interacting with one another no longer working well? Or making some members feel like
          less than equal participants on the governing body? Have you had complaints or concerns
          raised about the behavior of one or some members? If so, it may be time to discuss the
          prevailing dynamics openly and honestly to start identifying the concerns.
          Once you know what the concerns are, then you can begin discussing how to deal with
          them. You can identify what types of conduct are not acceptable. You can identify the
          values that are important to the group. You can work towards commitments about how
          you will communicate and interact with one another. Those commitments can form the
          basis for norms or standards of conduct. Not everyone may end up on the same page, but
          the “peer pressure” brought about by the consensus of a majority is powerful!
          If you can get on the same page on norms or standards of conduct, it may be desirable
          to put them into a written document, perhaps a set of governing body rules of conduct.
          The rules can articulate the standards explicitly, so that everyone understands what is
          expected. A process for bringing forward concerns or complaints can be identified, as well
          as the manner in which such concerns or complaints will be investigated. CIRSA members
          can obtain an example of such rules by contacting tami@cirsa.org.
          And very importantly, the rules can provide consequences for violations of the
          standards. Those consequences may be limited by your home rule charter (for home
          rule municipalities) or the state statutes (for statutory cities and towns). But even if
          the consequences don’t necessarily include a severe consequence like expulsion from
          the governing body, they are still powerful! Even a “public censure” is a powerful
          consequence; your wayward colleague, as well as the citizens, will understand that you
          take your conduct standards seriously and that violations are unacceptable.

          Bystanders and Peers
          It’s important to stress that we are all leaders, and we all have a role to play. Each of us
          is likely a supervisor, role model, or mentor to someone else. We may be part of a peer’s
          support system, sounding board, or confidant. We may even just be a witness. And that’s
          where the concept of “bystander” empowerment or intervention—another concept
          recently embraced by the EEOC5 — comes in. Perhaps “peer” would be a better term than
          “bystander,” but the idea is this: that someone who doesn’t directly experience concerning
          behavior, but who observes it happening, can step in and make a difference.
          This doesn’t necessarily mean that you, as a bystander or peer, should intervene
          superhero-style, to swoop in and “rescue” someone that you think may be in a problematic
          situation. Indeed, you don’t need to expose yourself to a situation that could escalate. But
          what you can do is to talk to that person away from the situation: let him or her know
          that you saw what was happening. Say something like, “Hey, I happened to hear what Kyle
          said (or did) to you, and I didn’t think it was OK. Were you OK with that?” If the person
          responds in the affirmative, fine; you can all move on.
          But if the person indicates that the behavior to which he or she was subjected was a
          problem, then think of the impacts of your intervention! First, that person knows that he
          or she is not alone: you are a witness. Second, you are affirming that the behavior is not


     38        CHAPTER 7



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 42                          6/4/2019 1:02:44 PM
          acceptable. And third, you can be of help in identifying resources for further follow-up.
          Bystander intervention is about empowering yourself to be part of the solution.
          If you’re comfortable doing so, you can talk to the person engaging in the problem
          behavior: “That joke wasn’t funny.” Or, maybe the situation calls for some kind of
          interruption…maybe standing in proximity will extinguish the behavior. Or, perhaps,
          drop something on the floor and create a small diversion!
          There are other ways in which a bystander or peer can positively affect a problem
          situation. Training on this topic is available and can provide a powerful peer-to-peer tool
          for communicating and reinforcing workplace values.6 Although a formal complaint/
          follow-up process should always be available, an effective bystander or peer intervention
          may help resolve issues without the need to escalate them into a formal process.

          Conclusion: It’s All About Respect
          In the final analysis, this discussion shouldn’t be about the “h” word, harassment. It should
          be about the “r” word, respect. A working environment where everyone’s scrutinizing
          whether the harassment line has or hasn’t been crossed in any given interaction is not a
          good working environment. A working environment where everyone’s striving for a sense
          of mutual respect, trust, collegiality, and inclusion, is an environment where things are
          going to get done, and done well.



         Footnotes:
         1. National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine, 2018: Sexual Harassment of Women:
            Climate, Culture, and Consequences in Academic Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. Washington,
            DC: The National Academies Press. https://doi.org/10.17226/24994.
         2. https://www1.eeoc.gov/laws/types/harassment.cfm?renderforprint=1.
         3. https://www.eeoc.gov/eeoc/task_force/harassment/risk-factors.cfm.
         4. https://www.eeoc.gov/eeoc/publications/promising-practices.cfm.
         5. https://www.eeoc.gov/eeoc/task_force/harassment/report.cfm.
         6. https://hbr.org/2018/10/to-combat-harassment-more-companies-should-try-bystander-training;
            https://www.ocwr.gov/sites/default/files/compliance-bystanders.pdf.




                                                                                                              39



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 43                               6/4/2019 1:02:44 PM
     40



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 44   6/4/2019 1:02:45 PM
                                                           CHAPTER 8
                                 ELECTED OFFICIALS’ INVOLVEMENT IN
                                        PERSONNEL MATTERS
                                        By Tami A. Tanoue, CIRSA Executive Director and
                                              Sam Light, CIRSA General Counsel




          Introduction
          CIRSA doesn’t take many member cases all the way through trial. When we do, it’s
          usually because we expect a jury verdict in our member’s favor. But one area where we’ve
          sometimes been disappointed by a jury has been in the area of employment liability.
          CIRSA members’ experience with employment claims in the judicial system reflects
          certain realities. Every juror has probably had to deal with a “bad boss” at some time in his
          or her working life. It’s much harder to find a juror who’s had to deal with “bad employees”
          as a manager or supervisor. So juries are naturally tilted in the employee’s favor rather
          than the employer’s.
          Another reality is that employment litigation is extremely stressful. Careers and
          reputations are at stake. The supervisor’s and manager’s (and sometimes elected official’s)
          every move is subjected to scrutiny, and the documents they’ve generated are nit-picked
          by attorneys and blown up into super-sized exhibits. One’s fate is entrusted to the decision
          of a group of complete strangers. Sometimes, that fate is a dire one, indeed. One mayor in
          New Mexico (which is in the same federal circuit that encompasses Colorado) was handed
          a verdict in which a jury determined that his retaliatory and discriminatory conduct in an
          employment matter warranted a punitive damages award of $2,250,000 against him.1
          Even when the stakes aren’t that high, no one who’s ever been through employment
          litigation relishes the thought of ever going through it again. The suggestions in this
          chapter are intended to help you, as an elected official, to minimize the chances that you’ll
          be caught up in employment-related litigation and, if you are, to maximize the chances of
          a better outcome than that faced by the New Mexico mayor.




                                                                                                          41



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 45                           6/4/2019 1:02:45 PM
          Establish a Structure That Allows Delegation of Personnel Functions
          In a word, the single most important suggestion is: delegate! The chances that you’ll be
          pulled into an employment claim, much less sued successfully, go way down if you’ve
          appropriately delegated the responsibility to hire, train, evaluate, supervise, manage,
          and discipline all but your key employee or employees. To do this, you need to have
          an administrative structure in place that will permit delegation, such as a manager or
          administrator form of government.
          If your entity is fortunate enough to have a manager/administrator, the governing
          body should take full advantage of the organizational structure this position allows.
          The manager/administrator should be the only position (except for city/town attorney,
          municipal judge, and similar positions) that reports directly to the governing body. All
          other personnel should be accountable to the organization solely through the manager/
          administrator. Every organization that has more than a few employees should strive to put
          such a structure into place.

          Honor the Structure
          Once you’ve achieved a manager/administrator form of government, you must honor it.
          These types of actions, if allowed, would violate your commitment to that form and waste
          the resources that you’ve allocated to it, and encourage dysfunction and disorder:
                   • Elected officials reaching down below the level of the manager/administrator to
                     influence what goes on with personnel administration below that level.
                   • Elected officials reaching down below the level of manager/administrator to
                     give orders to employees below that level on how to do their job, particularly if
                     the orders are contrary to the established policies and/or the direction of their
                     supervisors.
                   • Elected officials permitting an employee below the level of manager/administrator
                     to bypass his/her own supervisor and take personnel issues directly to them.
          Thus, for instance, if your entity has committed to a manager/administrator form, there’s
          no call for elected officials, individually or collectively, to demand the hiring or firing
          of a specific employee below the level of manager/administrator. Such an action raises
          questions of propriety from several perspectives:
                   • Do your personnel enactments reserve any such authority to the elected
                     officials? If you have a manager/administrator, your charter, ordinances and/or
                     personnel handbook probably don’t (and shouldn’t) call for you to be involved in
                     decisions involving subordinate employees. If you get involved in such decisions,
                     you may be outside the scope of your authority and could get in trouble (see “Be
                     aware of the scope of your authority” below).
                   • What’s the reason for doing an “end run” around the manager/administrator?
                     Do you have a “favorite” candidate for employment, or an employee who’s on your
                     “hit list”? Why are you championing or condemning someone rather than trusting
                     your manager/administrator to make the right decision? Do you question his or
                     her judgment or ability to make the right choice? If so, confront that concern;

     42        CHAPTER 8



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 46                              6/4/2019 1:02:45 PM
                      don’t skirt it with an “end run.” And, if the governing body does not share your
                      concern about the manager/administrator, don’t “end run” your governing body’s
                      collective decisions on oversight of its direct reports.
                    • Could what you’re doing be perceived as retaliatory? Along with all the other
                      reasons why involvement in personnel matters can be very risky, consider the
                      retaliation claim. Everyone is potentially in the category of persons who are
                      legally protected from acts of retaliation. Retaliation claims are among the most
                      difficult to defend. And, these kinds of claims can lead to massive liability.
          But often, it’s not the elected official who seeks, in the first instance, to become
          inappropriately involved in a personnel matter. Rather, there’s pressure put on the official
          from outside. For instance, a department head may have curried disfavor with a segment
          of the citizenry because of the perceived manner in which a service or program is being
          carried out. Either way, though, such involvement is the wrong thing to do. Don’t be
          pressured by a member of the public, for instance, to interfere in a personnel issue that’s
          been delegated to the manager/administrator. That citizen’s not going to be around to help
          you if you get into trouble at his or her urging!
          Similarly, don’t give in when a subordinate employee is trying to use you to get around his
          or her supervisor, or when an applicant is trying to get a leg up on employment through
          you. Let the process unfold the way it’s meant to unfold. If you have a concern about
          the way the manager/administrator is handling things, address that concern directly. If
          you cave in to pressure to involve yourself inappropriately, though, you may be enabling
          someone who wants to “game the system,” or unfairly disempowering a manager or
          supervisor.

          Be Aware of the Scope of Your Authority, and Stay Within
          That Scope
          From a liability standpoint, one of the worst things you can do is to act outside the scope
          of your legal authority. An area where authority issues often arise, particularly in smaller
          communities, is in the “committee,” “commissioner” or “liaison” format for personnel
          administration. In this format, an individual councilmember or trustee is in a supervisory
          or oversight relationship with respect to a department, department head, or employee.
          Thus, a town might designate a trustee as “water commissioner,” “police commissioner,”
          etc.
          What’s troubling about this format is that it’s often not described anywhere in the
          community’s enactments, nor is the authority of each commissioner set forth in writing.
          Rather, this format seems to be a relic of oral history and tradition. But the lack of written
          guidelines means that there are significant personal risks to the commissioner. What if
          the commissioner takes an adverse job action, such as seeking to terminate an employee?
          Under what authority is the commissioner acting?
          If the commissioner can’t prove that the action was within the scope of his or her
          authority, there may be consequences from a liability and insurance coverage standpoint.
          The Governmental Immunity Act, for instance, provides protections for public officials
          only when in the performance of their authorized duties. Likewise, liability coverage


                                                                                                            43



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 47                             6/4/2019 1:02:45 PM
          protections through CIRSA only apply when a public official is acting within the scope and
          performance of official duties. Finally, even if there is authority on the books, this format
          in particular can lend itself to uncertainty over who does what—“Is this a decision for the
          board, commissioner or department head?”
          Similar questions arise when an individual elected official chooses to become involved
          in a personnel matter in a way that isn’t authorized by the entity’s personnel enactments.
          Where is the authority for such involvement? If you can’t find a firm source of authority,
          you may be heading for trouble. An individual elected official’s inappropriate action can
          not only create liability exposure for the official, but put him or her crosswise with the
          other members of the governing body.

          Respect the Principle That Each Employee Should Have Only
          One Boss
          This seems like an obvious principle that every organization should follow. You don’t
          want an employee confused by multiple directions from multiple supervisors. You also
          don’t want an employee playing one supervisor off against another. When elected officials
          become inappropriately involved in personnel matters, this basic principle is violated, and
          the result is chaos.
          If you allow yourself to become embroiled in a personnel matter involving a subordinate
          employee, the employee may then feel that the word of his or her supervisor can be
          disregarded. You may have forever undermined that supervisor’s authority, or allowed the
          subordinate to do so. Likewise, if you were involved in lobbying for the hiring of a favorite
          applicant (even if it was for good reasons), that person may always feel that you, not his or
          her supervisor, are the go-to person on personnel issues.
          Similar principles apply with respect to your governing body’s oversight of its manager/
          administrator and other direct reports. Elected officials should recognize the council/
          board is not a group of seven or other multiple number of bosses, but one boss. Therefore,
          members of the body should commit themselves to speaking with one voice to their direct
          reports and to exercising their oversight role—e.g. performance reviews, goal setting,
          etc.—as a group. Even when there are differences of opinion as to how to address an issue
          with the manager/administrator, the body should arrive at its position. If the governing
          body does not work to speak with one voice to its direct reports, it’s undermining its
          credibility as a board and its ability to gain accountability at the highest levels in the
          organization.
          This is not to suggest that a militaristic chain of command is required in every workplace.
          In fact, flexibility in reporting relationships is desirable in some situations. For instance,
          you wouldn’t want to lock your employee into reporting a harassment claim only to an
          immediate supervisor, if the immediate supervisor is the one alleged to be engaging in the
          harassment. But you can maintain the needed flexibility without collapsing into the chaos
          that your inappropriate involvement in personnel matters will beget.




     44        CHAPTER 8



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 48                            6/4/2019 1:02:45 PM
          Conclusion
          There’s certainly a place for elected official-level decision-making in personnel matters,
          but those decisions should be reserved for the high-level issues that involve the entire
          organization. Examples of such high-level issues could include establishing overall policies
          for the entity; selection, evaluation, and discipline for the council/board’s few “direct
          reports”; salary and benefits plan for the workforce; and overall goals and priorities for
          departments. But when these issues begin devolving into the details of hiring, training,
          evaluating, supervising, managing, or disciplining particular employees below the level of
          your direct reports, it’s time to delegate them to your manager/administrator.



          Footnote:
          1. The award was later reduced to $1,500,000 but affirmed by the 10th Circuit Court of Appeals.
             Hardeman v. City of Albuquerque, 377 F.3d 1106 (10th Cir. 2004).




                                                                                                                45



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 49                                 6/4/2019 1:02:45 PM
     46



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 50   6/4/2019 1:02:45 PM
                                                           CHAPTER 9
                           SOCIAL MEDIA USE BY ELECTED OFFICIALS
                                         By: Tami A. Tanoue, CIRSA Executive Director &
                                               Sam Light, CIRSA General Counsel




          Social media engagement has become a regular part of life. Daily, we check our emails and
          texts, and then probably go on to check our favorite social media sites, such as Facebook,
          Instagram, Twitter, and others. Local governments and their constituents are also mutually
          interested in connecting via social media, whether to conveniently transact business or
          provide timely information about everything from street closures to street festivals. So
          it’s no wonder that elected officials, too, have integrated social media into their public
          lives. But if you’re an elected official, you should know that, because of the powers and
          responsibilities conferred on you by virtue of your position, your social media use has
          some legal dimensions that may not apply to the rest of us. This chapter explores a few of
          them.

          Open Meetings Law
          While Chapter 5 outlines the basics of the Colorado open meetings law (COML), it’s
          worth examining more specifically how its requirements can extend to your social media
          use. Consider this scenario: You have a Facebook page for yourself under the category
          of “Politician.” You post information about city happenings and resources, and welcome
          others to post there as well. One day, you post on a controversial topic that the council will
          be tackling at its next meeting, and two of your fellow councilmembers get wind. All three
          of you go back and forth posting about your respective views and how you intend to vote
          on the topic.
          Is this a “meeting” within the meaning of the open meetings law? Well, it seems at least
          arguable that it is! Remember, a “meeting” under the law includes a gathering convened
          electronically to discuss public business. When there are three or more members of the
          local public body (or a quorum, whichever is less) participating in such a gathering, that
          can trigger the notice and “open to the public” requirements of the law. If triggered in this
          type of social media discussion, how do you comply with the 24-hour “timely” posting
          requirement in the COML when you’re posting on Facebook? How do you meet the “open
          to the public” requirement? These are questions for which there are not clear answers, but
          you see the point…discussions of public business by the requisite number of governing

                                                                                                           47



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 51                            6/4/2019 1:02:45 PM
          body members can certainly take place in an electronic forum, and then these questions
          (and others) may come into play.

          Constitutional Concerns
          A scenario: You post about the upcoming agenda item on your Facebook page featured in
          the previous scenario. For some reason, the discussion on the post starts to go completely
          sideways, with lots of negative comments, including some hateful attacks from the citizen
          you defeated in the last election, and some uncalled-for memes and photos. You decide
          the hateful attacks aren’t helpful to the discussion—keep it positive, people!—and so
          you “block” your prior campaign rival from posting and you start deleting some of the
          particularly disagreeable comments. A few days later you ultimately decide that the better
          part of valor is to just delete the whole darn post.
          Did your act of “blocking” your rival raise free speech concerns? It may well have!
          Remember, the constitution provides strong protections for free speech and generally
          prohibits the government from censoring speech that occurs within those venues
          established for the open exchange of ideas on matters of public concern. These principles
          have raised the question of whether a public official’s Facebook page or Twitter account
          is a public forum such that commenters cannot be blocked, or their comments removed,
          based on their content.
          While the law in this area is still developing, a few courts have concluded that if a
          public official has a social media page or feed that essentially “walks and talks” like
          a governmental forum, then the medium is a public forum subject to the principles
          regulating free speech. So, for example, where an elected official designates the page as
          their official page as a member of an elected body, uses the page to communicate with
          constituents as an elected official about government events, and invites followers to use
          that page for discussion of any topics relating to the government, the official cannot block
          persons who post critical content. The takeway? A social media site can be a great way to
          communicate with constituents but if that’s how you use your accounts, don’t block people
          from posting.
          Also in the above scenario, if you’ve decided to delete the whole darn post: Are the post,
          and the comments, considered “public records” within the meaning of the Colorado
          Open Records Act (CORA)? Again, it seems at least arguable that they are! The term
          “public records” is defined to include “the correspondence of elected officials,” subject
          to certain exceptions. And public records are open for public inspection and copying.
          Your municipality has most likely adopted a records retention and destruction schedule
          that governs how long various documents, including electronic documents, must be
          maintained prior to destruction.
          So, could someone request a copy of a post that was on your Facebook page under CORA?
          What if you deleted the post? Is there a record retention schedule that applied? Was
          that schedule violated when you deleted the post? More of those infernal questions for
          which there isn’t a clear answer…but you see the point! If there’s a chance that the posts
          are subject to CORA, then it might be smart to tolerate the replies you get on your post.
          Alternatively, make sure you have some reasonable and defensible posting rules in place so
          that everyone knows up front your expectations for your page.

     48        CHAPTER 9



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 52                          6/4/2019 1:02:45 PM
          Quasi-Judicial Rules of Engagement
          A further word of caution on social media concerns your duties as a decision-maker
          in quasi-judicial matters. Consider this scenario: A site-specific land use application is
          scheduled to be considered by the planning commission on an upcoming agenda, with the
          commission’s recommendation to be referred to the council for final action at a later date.
          You consider the proposed use to be an extremely controversial one. But you’re worried
          that it’s a bit “under the radar,” what with summer vacations, holidays, and all. Of course,
          proper notice has been given by the planning department, but you’re still concerned that
          the proposal may get a favorable recommendation from the commission without any
          citizen testimony. You decide to post this on your Facebook page: “Citizens, please read
          this IMPORTANT NOTICE! You need to know that the planning commission is going to
          be considering a proposal for _____ at its upcoming meeting on _____ at 7:00 p.m. As a
          councilmember, I am taking no position on the proposal at this time. But if you care about
          our community’s future, then you will want to attend this very important hearing before
          the planning commission.”
          See any problems here? You’ve certainly stated that you’re “taking no position” at this time,
          right? But it may appear to others, particularly the applicant, that you are opposed to the
          proposal and are trying to “gin up” opposition to it! Is that congruent with the “neutral
          decision-maker” role that you will need to take on once this quasi-judicial proposal goes
          up to the council? Could the applicant take the position that it looks like you made up
          your mind, without evidence, long before the council hearing, and therefore, you should
          be recused from participation?
          “But, but, all I’m doing is making sure the public knows about this proposal,” you protest.
          Well, do you do that with EVERY proposal that comes before the planning commission,
          or did you just happen to pick out this one for the Facebook spotlight? The essence of
          procedural “due process” rights that attach to a quasi-judicial matter is notice and a fair
          hearing before neutral, impartial decision-makers. With a post like this you can see how,
          even if your intentions may have been honorable, doubts can be cast on your impartiality
          and neutrality. Those doubts increase if your involvement goes beyond this scenario—say,
          for example, that you are also posting or responding to comments about the merits of the
          application.
          When it comes to social media buzz around quasi-judicial matters, remember that due
          process requires you to be impartial and base your decision upon evidence presented at
          your public hearing. Remember also that defensible quasi-judicial decisions are about
          good process. As part of that process you will ultimately hear the case and have the
          power to make the decision—at the time that it’s ripe for your body’s decision! Avoid the
          temptation to leap into the social media fray, as that will protect your ability to serve as a
          quasi-judge, and protect your governing body’s decision.




                                                                                                             49



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 53                              6/4/2019 1:02:45 PM
          Some Suggestions
          Social media use by elected officials implicates new and evolving legal issues, and this
          chapter only touches upon a few of them. The uncertainty is real! But you can avoid
          uncertainty and stay on solid ground if you follow these suggestions:
                    • Consider whether you really need to be on social media in your elected official
                      capacity. If only 23 people “like” your page, it may not be worth the hassle. And
                      keep in mind that only a fraction of those 23 people may even be seeing your
                      posts.
                    • If you feel that the use of social media is a net plus and/or a service to your
                      constituents, be extremely careful about what is posted! Stay away from
                      discussions of items that will be or could be on your governing body’s agenda.
                      There’s a time and place for discussion of those items, and it’s most likely not
                      social media. Stick to public service announcements, photos and posts about
                      things you did (“It was great to meet so many of you when I volunteered at City
                      Cleanup Day last week”), upcoming events like “Town Halls,” re-posts of City
                      newsletters, links to articles that tout your great city, and the like. If you’re careful
                      about what you post, you’re not going to have to confront the uncertainties of
                      COML, CORA, and other laws. If you stick with helpful but non-controversial
                      posts, then there won’t be much of a need to delete posts.
                    • Be particularly careful to stay away from commenting on a pending quasi-judicial
                      matter. This is where the stakes are highest! In a worst case scenario, an imprudent
                      post could require your recusal from participating in the matter on the basis that
                      you’ve revealed your non-neutrality, buttress someone’s constitutional claim, serve
                      as a basis to attack the body’s decision, or all of the above.
                    • Check to make sure you created your page under the right category. “Politician” is
                      more accurate than “Governmental Organization.” And don’t use the official city/
                      town logo, to avoid any implication that yours is an “official” city/town page.




     50        CHAPTER 9



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 54                                   6/4/2019 1:02:45 PM
                                                         C H A P T E R 10
                         APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF OFFICIALS
                                 IN STATUTORY TOWNS
                      By: Linda Michow, Partner, and Christiana McCormick, Associate, Michow
                         Cox & McAskin LLP, and Tami A. Tanoue, CIRSA Executive Director



          Introduction
          Colorado law grants elected officials in statutory towns the power to appoint and remove
          certain municipal officials, including members of the governing body and officers such
          as the clerk or treasurer. If you’re an elected official in a statutory town, it’s important
          for you to have a working understanding of the rules and potential pitfalls in this area.
          An improper appointment or removal can not only result in disputes or claims, but
          also create uncertainty within the organization and a cloud over the governing body.
          This chapter provides information on appointment and removal of officials in statutory
          towns, including the filling of vacancies and guidance regarding best practices. In general,
          statutory cities operate under different statutes, and home rule municipalities operate
          under charter provisions that are likely different than the statutory requirements outlined
          in this chapter, and so neither are addressed here.1

          Filling Vacancies on the Town Board
          A vacancy on the town board can occur under a variety of circumstances, including:
          resignation; inability to fulfill the duties of office; failure or refusal to take the oath of
          office; failure to meet residency requirements (including moving out of the ward or
          municipality); removal from office; a seat left unfilled after an election, or an official
          passing away during the term of office. Once a vacancy arises, the town board is faced
          with several considerations.
                    • Sixty-day time frame. First, state law provides that a vacancy on the town board
                      may be filled either by appointment or by election. However, this option only lasts
                      for 60 days. If the town board does not fill the vacancy by appointment or order
                      an election within 60 days, then the board is required to order an election to fill
                      the vacancy.
                    • Resolution declaring vacancy. The board should consider adopting a resolution
                      that declares the vacancy, sets forth the vacancy effective date, and states whether
                      the board chooses to fill the vacancy by appointment or by election. While such
                      a resolution is not required for a statutory town, the board should consider this
                                                                                                               51



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 55                                6/4/2019 1:02:46 PM
                      approach, as passing a resolution declaring a vacancy provides a written record of
                      when the statutory 60-day clock begins and makes known the intent of the town
                      board regarding its choice on how to fill the position.
                    • Special considerations for vacancy in mayor’s office. Generally, a vacancy in
                      the office of mayor is filled in the same manner as vacancies of other members of
                      the town board. However, if the town board will appoint someone, it may wish
                      to consider qualifications or circumstances unique to the position, including the
                      mayor’s voting rights and role as presiding officer.

          Term of Office for an Appointee Filling a Vacancy
          The term of office of a vacated seat filled by appointment or election only runs until the
          next regular election. This is true even if the original term would not be expiring at such
          election. There is no authority in state law for a statutory town to extend the term of office
          of an appointee filling a vacancy. If terms of office are four years, this rule can sometimes
          create confusion at the next regular election, where some seats are up for a full four-year
          term while another seat is on the ballot solely for purpose of electing a person to fill a
          vacant seat for the remainder of the term. Proper parlance can reduce the confusion—
          candidates running for that vacant seat aren’t running for an office having a new two- or
          four-year term but for a shortened, two-year term to fill the vacancy.

          Qualifications of an Appointee Filling a Vacancy
          Colorado statutes do not separately mandate qualifications for an appointee who is to serve
          in the event of a vacancy. However, the Colorado Constitution and related statutes require
          that persons holding any elective office shall be qualified. To be qualified, an appointee
          must be: at least 18 years old as of the date of the election [or appointment]; a U.S. citizen;
          a resident of Colorado for at least 22 days prior to the election [or appointment]; a resident
          of the municipality (and ward, if applicable) for at least 12 consecutive months prior to
          the date of the election [or appointment]; not serving a sentence in any public prison; and
          registered to vote.
          An appointment is void if the person appointed is not qualified. Therefore, it is important
          to ensure that a person appointed to fill a vacancy in an elective office has the qualifications
          set forth in state law, as summarized above.
          Although state law does not dictate the process for selecting a qualified person to fill a
          vacancy, governing bodies should be mindful that appointments to elective positions,
          to some extent, remove the people’s opportunity to choose their own representative.
          Therefore, it is prudent to implement a formal process with sufficient advertisement of
          the vacancy to provide transparency and ample opportunity for participation. Other
          considerations and pitfalls to avoid include:
                    • Making an appointment that benefits or appears to benefit any member of the
                      governing body personally (see chapter 6);
                    • Appointing someone who will create turmoil or dysfunction within the governing
                      body or other areas of municipal government (see chapters 1 - 3); or


     52       CHAPTER 10



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 56                             6/4/2019 1:02:46 PM
                    • Failing to provide the appointee with proper training once appointed. Like any
                      other person serving in an elective position, an appointee should receive proper
                      training.

          Appointment of Officers in Statutory Towns
          State law requires the town board appoint or provide for the election of certain officers,
          including a clerk, treasurer and town attorney. The applicable statute, C.R.S. Section 31-4-
          304, states in pertinent part:
                    The board of trustees shall appoint a clerk, treasurer, and town attorney, or shall
                    provide by ordinance for the election of such officers, and may appoint such
                    other officers, including a town administrator, as it deems necessary for the good
                    government of the corporation…. [N]o appointment of any officer shall continue
                    beyond thirty days after compliance with section 31-4-401 by the members of
                    the succeeding board of trustees.
          In some cases, the town board fails to act within 30 days to appoint or re-appoint officers
          of the town. Further, in many cases, these positions are staffed with municipal employees,
          which can lead to uncertainty in employment when the town board fails to re-appoint an
          employee to one of these appointed positions. These and other circumstances raise the
          question: What is the impact of not making appointments within the 30-day period after
          the new board members are seated? In short, if the 30-day period set forth in this section
          passes, the term of the officer expires.
          However, it is important to note that the expiration of the term does not necessarily
          or automatically oust the individual holding the office from that position and create a
          vacancy. Rather, absent provisions to the contrary in state law or local ordinance, the
          public interest requires that public offices should be filled at all times without interruption.
          The Colorado Constitution adheres to this principle, stating in Article XII, Section 1 that
          “[e]very person holding any civil office under the state or any municipality therein, shall,
          unless removed according to law, exercise the duties of such office until his successor is
          duly qualified….”
          Therefore, an individual holding an appointive office in a statutory town remains in that
          position after his or her term has expired (i.e. holds over) until a successor properly
          appointed by the town board takes office. Moreover, if the incumbent is an employee, he
          or she would remain in their appointive position and on the town’s payroll as a holdover.
          To avoid confusion and conflict regarding holdovers, when the term of an appointive
          office expires, the town board should timely act to either re-appoint the incumbent or
          appoint a new person to the office. The board should also seek advice of legal counsel
          before deciding to not re-appoint an incumbent appointive officer who is also an
          employee of the town.

          Removal from Office in Statutory Towns
          The following identifies some of the key requirements pertaining to the removal of an
          elected official in a statutory town pursuant to a proceeding under C.R.S. Section 31-4-
          307. Many of these requirements are not present in the statute itself; rather, they are found
          in some old judicial decisions concerning the statute. Removal of an elected official by
                                                                                                             53



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 57                             6/4/2019 1:02:46 PM
          the governing body essentially overrides the will of the people who elected the official.
          For this reason, it is critical that any removal proceedings take place in accordance with
          the guidance provided by these decisions. The advice of counsel is also critical given the
          potential for missteps.
          While these decisions are more than a century old, they came into play more recently
          in the recommendation of a United States Magistrate Judge in a case involving a CIRSA
          member municipality.2 While the Magistrate Judge’s recommendation is unpublished and
          does not serve as precedent, it was cited with approval by the Colorado Supreme Court.3
          Thus, the Magistrate Judge’s recommendation highlights the importance of these older
          decisions and may offer some good guidance to a statutory town contemplating a removal
          proceeding.
          Given this recent resurrection of old case law, the way in which a town may have applied
          Section 31-4-307 in past proceedings may not serve as a sound guide to the conduct
          of such proceedings today. Thus, past practice should not be used as a basis to avoid
          compliance with the following requirements gleaned from the old but resurrected case
          law:
                    • The basis for removal (unless the elected official has moved out of town)
                      must be “misconduct or malfeasance in office,” as those terms are used in
                      Article XIII, Section 3 of the Colorado Constitution. These constitutional
                      provisions contemplate official misconduct of such a magnitude that it affects the
                      performance of the officer’s duties, and offenses against the town “of a character
                      directly affecting its rights and interests.”4 Political or personal disagreements, or
                      a stalemate resulting from failure to obtain a requisite number of votes on matters
                      coming before the town board, may not be sufficient grounds to effect a removal.
                    • The removal proceeding is quasi-judicial in nature, subject to the safeguards
                      commonly found in judicial proceedings. This means:
                                • There must be a charge or charges against the official sought to be
                                  removed. The charges must be specific and stated with substantial
                                  certainty.5 Vague or general charges likely will not meet this requirement.
                                • There must be a hearing in support of the charges, and an opportunity
                                  to make a defense.6 The charges must in the first instance be proven by
                                  testimony and evidence, with the opportunity given to the officer sought
                                  to be removed to rebut such testimony and evidence, and offer his or her
                                  own.
                                • The hearing must be held under the same limitations, precautions, and
                                  sanctions as in other judicial proceedings.7
                                A basic requirement of judicial proceedings is that decision-makers
                                must be neutral and impartial. This is why in most judicial proceedings,
                                investigative, prosecutorial, and adjudicatory functions are separated.
                                However, in removal proceedings, the adjudicatory body (the town board)
                                may also have carried out an investigative function by establishing the
                                charges that are the basis for the proceeding. Involvement in presenting


     54        CHAPTER 10



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 58                                  6/4/2019 1:02:46 PM
                                testimony and evidence would further diminish the separation of these
                                functions, and the lack of separation may compromise the appearance or
                                reality of a neutral and impartial decision-maker.
                                These requirements highlight one of the most difficult procedural aspects
                                of a removal proceeding: who will present the evidence and testimony? The
                                town board serves as the decision-maker. It would likely be problematic,
                                from a fairness standpoint, if the decision-makers also served as witnesses.
                                One option to address this issue is use of a hearing officer whose decision is
                                made subject to final review and action by the town board. Another option
                                is to limit involvement in non-adjudicatory functions to one (or at most
                                two) members of the governing body who understand their need to then
                                recuse themselves from the board’s decision-making.
                    • The decision will be subject to judicial review.8 This means that under Rule
                      106(a)(4) of the Colorado Rules of Civil Procedure, a transcript of the proceedings
                      as well as the evidentiary record, will be produced to the district court for review.
                      The standard of review will be whether the governing body’s decision was
                      “arbitrary or capricious.” Constitutional due process violations may be raised, and
                      considerations of bias may be raised to set aside a decision as well.
          Other questions and issues to consider in holding the proposed removal hearing include:
                    • Have provisions been made for the issuance of subpoenas to compel the
                      attendance of witnesses, the administration of oaths, the right of discovery, and
                      the cross-examination of witnesses?
                    • Are rules of procedure in place, has a standard of proof been established, and will
                      rules of evidence be followed?
                    • Does the officer sought to be removed have the right to be represented by counsel?
                      Is the governing body working with the advice of counsel?
                    • Have adequate time and opportunity been given to the officer sought to be
                      removed to prepare his or her case in answer to the charges? Have provisions been
                      made for the granting of reasonable continuances?
                    • Has some means of recording the hearing been arranged, preferably by a
                      stenographer who can prepare a verbatim transcript?
                    • Who will prepare written findings of facts, conclusions of law, and a final decision
                      and order?

          Conclusion
          A town board’s powers of appointment are effective tools. They can be used to timely fill a
          board vacancy and appoint key staff who will help drive the town’s vision and success. But,
          if not handled appropriately, appointments can become the source of intractable disputes
          and potential liability. Thus, board members should work together to understand their
          options, duties and obligations when it comes to making appointments, and make wise
          use of their appointment powers.


                                                                                                                 55



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 59                                  6/4/2019 1:02:46 PM
          Likewise, a town board’s power of removal is undoubtedly an important one; but, an
          imprudent or improper removal proceeding can be the source of significant liability. As
          noted, recently resurrected case law suggests the bar for exercising the removal power
          is high, for situations where serious misconduct or malfeasance in office can be proven.
          Further, the removal power should be exercised only with the procedural safeguards
          summarized above in place, and only with the assistance of legal counsel. Otherwise, the
          governing body may be taking on an unacceptable risk of liability.



          Footnotes:
          1. Officials in statutory cities and home rule municipalities should obtain from their counsel and
             staff information on the appointment and removal requirements specific to their organization.
          2. Russell v. Buena Vista, 2011 WL 288453 (D. Colo. 2011).
          3. Churchill v. University of Colorado, 2012 WL 3900750 (Colo. 2012).
          4. Board of Trustees v. People ex rel. Keith, 59 P. 72, 74 (Colo.App. 1899).
          5. Board of Alderman v. Darrow, 22 P. 784, 787 (Colo. 1889).
          6. Darrow, 22 P. at 787.
          7. Keith, 59 P. at 75.
          8. Id.




     56        CHAPTER 10



EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 60                                   6/4/2019 1:02:46 PM
                                                                       SAFERTOGETHER
                                                                       3665 Cherry Creek North Drive
                                                                       Denver, Colorado 80209
                                                                       800.228.7136
                                                                       www.cirsa.org




EthicsLiability&BestPracticesHandbookForElectedOfficialsFinal.indd 2                                   6/4/2019 1:02:12 PM
