Chapter 2



Governing Bodies
and The Outlier
Syndrome



By: Tami A. Tanoue, CIRSA General Counsel/Claims Manager




                                                           11
     Chapter 2
     Governing Bodies and The Outlier Syndrome

     Those who have been working with municipalities for an extended period have
     observed a phenomenon that occurs at the governing body level. Let’s call this
     phenomenon the Outlier Syndrome.
     The Outlier is the “lone wolf” who sits on a city council or board of trustees and
     steadfastly refuses to act like a member of the team. Even while isolating himself
     or herself as the only person on the losing side of just about every vote, the
     Outlier manages to create havoc with the rest of the body. The Outlier may be
     obstreperous and obstructionist. The Outlier may refuse to recognize and respect
     the norms that guide the rest of the body’s conduct. The Outlier may position
     himself or herself as the only “ethical” or “transparent” member of the body.
     The Outlier’s every statement and action seems to be aimed at preserving that self-
     assumed distinction rather than making any concrete achievements. Sometimes,
     a governing body is unfortunate enough to have more than one Outlier.
     Have you ever experienced the Outlier Syndrome in action? It could be called a
     syndrome because of the recognizable features or symptoms that seem to fester
     whenever an Outlier sits on a governing body. Do you have an Outlier on your
     governing body? Could you possibly be an Outlier? Should the Outlier Syndrome be
     viewed as an afﬂiction or malady? And if so, what can be done? We’ll explore these
     questions in more detail below.


     Power, Goals, and the Outlier
     To understand the Outlier’s impact on a governing body, let’s start with the idea that
     elected ofﬁcials can only act as part of a body – a collaborative decision-making
     body. You can search throughout the laws governing statutory municipalities, or just
     about any home rule charter, and you’ll likely ﬁnd no powers or duties that are to
     be exercised by a singular elected ofﬁcial (other than the mayor, who may have
     certain deﬁned responsibilities). This means that, as elected ofﬁcials, the only way
     you can get anything accomplished is to have a majority of the governing body on
     your side.
     It’s likely that each elected ofﬁcial has an individual list of goals, goals that those
     who voted for you want you to accomplish. But your goals can be accomplished
     only if they’re part of the goals of the body as a whole. That means your success
     depends on creating a consensus of the majority! And where does the Outlier ﬁt
     in on a collaborative decision-making body? Why, nowhere! Perpetually being on
     the losing side of a vote means that the Outlier gets nowhere on his or her goals…
     unless, of course, he or she feels that being an Outlier is its own reward.



          The Outlier is the “lone wolf” who sits on a city council or board of
          trustees and steadfastly refuses to act like a member of the team.


12
                                                                                          Chapter 2 Governing Bodies and The Outlier Syndrome
Are you an Outlier?
Perhaps you have met your share of Outliers, who tend to share one or more of
these characteristics:

         • There is an element of the lone crusader in them. They feel they were
           elected to shake up the status quo in some way. Maybe they think their
           predecessors were too cozy with developers, not friendly enough with
           the business community, too close to the municipality’s staff, not close
           enough to the municipality’s staff, etc.

         • They view themselves as independent thinkers. They are often highly
           intelligent, but not “people persons.” In kindergarten, their report cards
           might have reﬂected a poor score on “plays well with others.”

         • They take a perverse glee in being the “outsider,” relish arguments for
           argument’s sake, and place little value on matters like courtesy and regard
           for the feelings of others.

         • They hate having to endure “soft” discussions such as a council or
           board retreat, the establishment of a mission or vision statement, the
           development of consensus around rules of procedure or rules of conduct,
           a session to discuss goals and priorities, or a CIRSA liability training
           session.

         • They feel they are always right, and everyone else is always wrong. They
           feel they are always ethical, and everyone else is not. They feel they are
           looking out for the citizens, and everyone else is not.

         • Initially, they may just have been unfamiliar with the ways of local
           government, and needed to build the skills to work effectively in a
           new environment. One or more gaffes may have caused them to be
           pegged as Outliers and treated accordingly, initiating an unhealthy Outlier
           dynamic.

         • There may have been some explosive moments in private or public with
           the Outlier’s colleagues, or indeed, the colleagues may have made some
           attempt at an “intervention.”

These observations may or may not be totally on the mark. But one characteristic of
the Outlier cannot be denied: he or she is seldom on the prevailing side of a vote,
and is often at loggerheads with the rest of the body.
Do you think you may be an Outlier? If so, you might examine what your
goals as an elected ofﬁcial really are. Do you want to have a list of concrete
accomplishments at the end of your term? Or will it be accomplishment enough to
have been the “loyal opposition”? If the former, then your behavior may be working
at cross-purposes with your goals. If the latter, really? Will the people who voted for
you be satisﬁed with that accomplishment? Will you?
                                                                                          13
Chapter 2 Governing Bodies and The Outlier Syndrome
                                                      Is the Outlier a Problem for the Rest of the Body?
                                                      For the Municipality?
                                                      Most people who’ve had to deal with an Outlier would say that yes, the Outlier
                                                      is a problem! How? Well, here are some ways:

                                                              • Anger and frustration build when a council or board has to deal with an
                                                                Outlier, siphoning away energy that could be spent on more positive
                                                                endeavors. This is a particular problem if tensions have built to the point
                                                                that confrontations have begun to occur. No reasonable person wants to
                                                                attend or view a council meeting and have a hockey game break out! It
                                                                may be entertaining, but mostly, it’s embarrassing to the governing body
                                                                and to the community.

                                                              • Healthy teams seek to build a sense of camaraderie and cohesiveness.
                                                                That’s not entirely possible when there’s an Outlier. It’s not healthy to build
                                                                a team around a shared hatred of one of its own members, and most
                                                                reasonable people would prefer not to have that happen.

                                                              • The Outlier’s perspective tends to be oppositional. From a liability
                                                                standpoint, such a perspective is risky. If you’re taking positions on an
                                                                oppositional basis, are you really meeting your ﬁduciary duty to look out
                                                                for the best interests of the entity?

                                                              • A disharmonious governing body is a dysfunctional governing body. It’s
                                                                been CIRSA’s experience that liability claims thrive in an environment of
                                                                disharmony and dysfunction.

                                                              • Your staff members are affected by the Outlier Syndrome, too. From the
                                                                staff’s perspective, seeing dysfunction on the governing body is a little like
                                                                watching discord between one’s own parents. It’s unsettling, distressing,
                                                                and morale-crushing.

                                                              • Most importantly, it’s a shame for the governing body to lose a potentially
                                                                valuable contributing member. In a worst case scenario, the Outlier
                                                                becomes completely disempowered as he or she is ignored and
                                                                marginalized. But this means that the body isn’t running on all cylinders,
                                                                and is deprived of the valuable perspectives that the Outlier might
                                                                otherwise bring. Ultimately, the voters, and the community, are the losers.

                                                      Dealing with the Outlier Syndrome
                                                      You can’t cure an afﬂiction until you recognize it. And you can’t recognize what you
                                                      haven’t named and deﬁned. If your municipality is afﬂicted with Outlier Syndrome,
                                                      you’ve taken the ﬁrst steps towards a cure by naming, deﬁning, and recognizing it!
                                                      Here are some other steps you might consider.

                                                              • Confront the issue forthrightly and compassionately in a neutral
                                                                environment. A council or board meeting is likely not a neutral
14
          environment! Perhaps the matter could be discussed as one item on a




                                                                                           Chapter 2 Governing Bodies and The Outlier Syndrome
          retreat agenda. Be prepared with speciﬁc examples of how the Outlier has
          negatively impacted the body.

        • Consider addressing the issue in the context of a larger discussion about
          governing body rules of procedure or rules of conduct. The “norms” that
          guide members’ interactions with one another may be obvious to some
          but not all, especially to newer members. Those norms could be part
          of the discussion, and the process of articulating them can facilitate a
          consensus to honor them.

        • Consider bringing in an outside facilitator to assist you. A governing body
          is a bit like a marriage that’s been arranged for you by the citizens! There’s
          nothing wrong with getting some outside help for perspective and to ﬁnd
          solutions.

If you think you might have the Outlier label pinned on you, consider these
suggestions:

        • First, get a reality check. Find out how you’re being perceived by your
          peers. It may be very different from your own perception of yourself.
          Ask each of your colleagues to give you a frank assessment.

        • Check your motivations. If you have concrete goals you want to
          accomplish as an elected ofﬁcial, you must accept that success in your
          position can’t happen without collaboration and consensus building.
          There is nothing that you can accomplish alone. So set a goal to be
          on the “prevailing” side…indeed to bring others over to establish a
          “prevailing” side.

        • If you’ve already burned some bridges, understand that consensus-
          building can’t happen without mutual trust, respect, and a sense of
          cohesion. These will take time to build. Look for a retreat or other
          opportunities to clear the air and start fresh.

        • Use staff as a resource! Your manager or administrator wants nothing
          more than to assist newly elected ofﬁcials in learning the ropes, and
          understanding the best time, place, and approach to raising issues. Don’t
          get off on the wrong foot with blunders that might peg you as an Outlier.

What if all efforts to deal with the Outlier Syndrome fail? Well, it might be time for
the rest of the governing body to cut its losses and move on. Don’t continue to
agonize over the Outlier and his or her impact on the body’s functioning. Continue
to accord the Outlier the same opportunities to participate in discussion and
decision-making as any other member, but don’t allow the Outlier to keep pushing
your buttons. Remember, arguments and confrontations require more than one
participant. You may need to simply say “thank you” or move on to the next point
of discussion. Ultimately, the responsibility for putting an Outlier into ofﬁce rests
with the citizens, so there’s only so much you can do. Try to go about your business
                                                                                           15
                                                      without having the Outlier become the dysfunctional center around which the rest




Chapter 2 Governing Bodies and The Outlier Syndrome
                                                      of you swirl.


                                                      Conclusion
                                                      Governing body members don’t all have to be in lockstep, or think and behave in
                                                      the same way. On the contrary, diversity of thinking, styles, opinions, experiences,
                                                      and approaches are healthy and necessary for a collaborative decision-making body.
                                                      There is truly a collective wisdom that comes forth when many diverse minds work
                                                      together on common goals. But the Outlier Syndrome is detrimental to a high-
                                                      functioning governing body, and therefore, to the community. If your governing
                                                      body is afﬂicted with the Outlier Syndrome, it’s time to do something about it!




16
