   HOW TO SURVIVE A RECALL
CML CONFERENCE, AUGUST 25, 2020
           CARMEN BEERY
          MIRANDA FISHER
          KAREN GOLDMAN
RECALL:
LEGAL
ASPECTS
         PRESENTED BY:

     CARMEN BEERY, PARTNER

MURRAY DAHL BEERY & RENAULD, LLP
    CONSTITUTIONAL PROVISIONS, ARTICLE XXI
Every elective public officer may be recalled from office by the registered electors entitled to vote for a
successor.

Recall is effected by the circulation of a recall petition.

Signatures on the petition shall equal, at a minimum, twenty-five percent (25%) of the ENTIRE VOTE cast at the
preceding election for all candidates for the incumbent’s position.

An elected official cannot be recalled until he/she has held office for at least six months.

Colorado Constitution also includes provisions for the form of the petition, when a recall election shall be held,
and how to fill a vacancy should the officer subject to recall resign prior to a recall election.

The Colorado Constitution also gives municipalities the authority to provide for the manner of exercising recall
powers. These can be found in 31-4-501 through 31-4-507, C.R.S.
                     STATUTORY PROVISIONS,
                    31-4-501 THROUGH 31-4-507
Signature requirements

       25% of the entire vote cast for all candidates in the last election when the person
       subject to recall` was on the ballot; varies among municipalities.

       In elections where all candidates on a ballot are elected at-large, total vote is divided
       by number of positions to be filled multiplied by 25%.

       In a recall involving an elected official who was appointed to fill a vacancy, the
       number of signatures is taken from the election at which the person whose vacancy
       is being filled was elected.
                       STATUTORY PROVISIONS,
                      31-4-501 THROUGH 31-4-507
Petition Requirements
◦ Petition Committee consists of 3-5 persons who represent the signers of the petition in all matters.
◦ Each petition shall contain the name of only one person.
◦ A warning to the signers is listed at the top of each page of the petition.
◦ The petition includes the name of the person subject to recall.
◦ The petition includes a 200-word statement of the grounds on which the recall is sought.
◦ Signature pages are provided showing the signature, printed name, residence address, date of
  signing.
◦ Affidavit of circulator follows the signature pages.
                                RECALL TIME FRAMES
The form of the petition must be approved by the close of the second business day following submission of the proposed
petition.

Petitioners must file the recall petition within sixty (60) days following the date on which the petition was approved as to form.

After the signed petition has been filed with the municipality, a written determination of petition sufficiency or insufficiency is
filed by the close of the fifth business day.

A protest may be filed by a municipal registered elector within fifteen (15) days after the petition has been filed listing the
grounds for protest.

A protest hearing shall be held no sooner than five (5) nor no later than ten (10) days after a notice regarding a protest has
been sent. Such hearing shall be concluded within thirty (30) days after the petition has been filed and a written determination
shall be filed no later than five (5) days after the petition has been filed.

If a petition has been deemed sufficient, the governing body shall set an election at their first meeting following the expiration
of the protest period or at the conclusion of the protest hearing, whichever is later. Such election shall be held not less than
thirty (30) nor more than ninety (90) days from the date the governing body received the recall petition.
               RECALL ELECTION PROVISIONS
When setting the election date, the governing body also determines the form of the election,
either polling place or by mail ballot.

If a regular municipal election is to be held within one hundred eighty (180) days after the
date of petition submission, the recall is held as part of the regular municipal election.

If the elected official subject to recall intended to seek re-election at the regular municipal
election, only the question of re-election shall be on the ballot.

If a successor candidate is to be selected at such regular election and the officer subject to
recall is not seeking re-election, then the recall question shall not appear on the ballot.
                    OTHER RECALL MATTERS
If an elected official subject to recall submits a written resignation at any time prior to the
recall election, all recall proceedings shall be terminated, and the vacancy in office shall be
filled in accordance with statute.

Successor candidates shall be nominated by petition, in the same manner as for a regular
municipal election. Petitions shall be made available on the first business day after the
governing body sets the election date. Candidate have not less than ten (10) days to
circulate nomination petitions.

In the case of a failed recall, municipalities may reimburse the elected official subject to
recall for authorized expenses, including funds spent challenging he sufficiency of the recall
petition and presenting his/her official position, including campaign literature and
advertising.
RECALL:
THE ROLE OF
THE CLERK
        PRESENTED BY:
MIRANDA FISHER, NEDERLAND TOWN
             CLERK
   RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE MUNICIPAL CLERK
The municipal clerk serves a vital role in the recall process. He/she serves as the main
contact between the recall petition proponents and the elected official who is the subject of
a recall effort.

Recall responsibilities:
 ◦ Review the petition as to form, ensuring all elements required by statute, and none other, are
   included in the recall petition
 ◦ Identifies the minimum number of required signatures needed on a recall petition
 ◦ Once a petition has been submitted, reviews each signature to determine whether it is a qualified
   signature. Reasons for disqualification may include:
  ◦ Person signing is not a resident of the town
  ◦ Person signing is not registered
  ◦ Name and address on petition does not match information in statewide voter registration database
  RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE MUNICIPAL CLERK
◦ Reasons for disqualification may include (continued):
  ◦ Signature line is missing the date of signing
  ◦ Signature is illegible
  ◦ More than one signature was made by the same person
  ◦ Signature was made after the date the circulator made and signed his/her affidavit
◦ Clerk issues determination regarding the sufficiency or insufficiency of the recall petition and notifies the elected
  official of the determination.
◦ In the event a protest is filed within the statutory allotted time, sets the hearing date. The clerk shall serve as the
  hearing officer, unless another person is so designated by the governing body.
◦ In the event the recall petition is deemed to be insufficient following the determination of the clerk or the hearing
  officer, it may be withdrawn, signatures added, then refiled. The clerk once again reviews the petition and issues a
  determination.
◦ Clerk submits the petition to the governing body which sets a hearing date and determines the form of the election.
  The clerk provides information to the governing body of the procedures involved, whether the election can be held
  as part of a coordinated election or must be held as a special municipal election.
  RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE MUNICIPAL CLERK
Once a recall election date has been set, clerk provides nomination petitions for potential
successor candidates, sets the dates for petition circulation, and checks the signatures on
the nomination petitions once they have been filed.

Clerk also performs all other duties involved in conducting an election, including certifying
the ballot content to the county clerk (for coordinated elections), posting the notice of
election, providing absentee ballot applications and ballots (for polling place elections),
verifying signatures (mail ballot elections), counting ballots, and posting election results.
RECALL:
THE
PROTEST
       PRESENTED BY:
KAREN GOLDMAN, CML MUNICIPAL
   CLERK ADVISORY PROGRAM
                        RECALL PROCEDURES
Following the determination of the clerk regarding the sufficiency of the petition, either
sufficient or insufficient, a protest may be filed by ‘some’ registered elector of the
municipality within fifteen (15) days after the petition has been filed.

The grounds for the protest must be listed in it, and generally are not restricted.

Upon receipt of the protest, a hearing is set by sending out a notice to the elected official
subject to recall, the recall petitioners, and the county clerk. The hearing is scheduled
between the 5th and 10th day after the notice is sent.

The clerk serves as hearing officer, unless someone else is formally appointed to serve in
that role by the governing body.
                                RECALL PROCEDURES
Hearing officer has the authority to issue subpoenas and to compel the attendance of witnesses.

The hearing is administrative in nature, which allows for a wide latitude in testimony. It concludes within thirty (30)
days after the petition has been filed.

An insufficient recall petition, following determination by the clerk or hearing officer, may be withdrawn and refiled by:
   Adding any information to the signatures on the petition (not the date of signing); or
   Attaching proper circulator affidavits

Additional signatures cannot be submitted.

The finding of sufficiency may be reviewed by the district court of the county in which the municipality is contained.

A sufficient petition is submitted to the governing body at their first meeting after the protest expiration date or the
conclusion of the protest hearing. The governing body’s only option is to set the date of the recall election.


 .
          ADDITIONAL RECALL PROCEDURES
If the elected official subject to recall resigns at any time prior to the day of the election, the
entire election, including the vote on successor candidates, is cancelled and the vacancy is
filled in accordance with statute.

If the recall is one of many items on a ballot, the ballots have been printed, and the elected
official resigns, then no votes cast on the recall shall be counted.

If the recall is successful, the successor candidate with the highest number of votes shall be
declared elected for the remainder of the term.

Following one unsuccessful recall, an elected official may be recalled a second time and the
number of minimum required signatures shall be 50% of the votes cast for that office.
RECALL:
PROPOSED
LEGISLATIVE
CHANGES
       PRESENTED BY:
KAREN GOLDMAN, CML MUNICIPAL
   CLERK ADVISORY PROGRAM
         PROPOSED LEGISLATIVE CHANGES
Amend 31-4-504(1)(c): Eliminate the requirement that, in order to vote on a successor
candidate, a person must also vote on the question of the recall.

Clarify that the recall procedures apply to persons who have been appointed by the
governing body to fill vacancies in office in addition to those elected by the citizens.

Add a provision that a person whose term office would end within six months is not subject
to a recall.
