                                        Town of Paonia
                                      214 Grand Avenue
                               Tuesday, May 12, 2026 6:30 PM
                                     Town Board Agenda
                           https://us02web.zoom.us/j/82427207755
                                   Meeting ID: 824 2720 7755



Public Participation: Please raise your hand and wait to be recognized by the Mayor, come to
 the podium and state your name and whether you live in town or out of town. Time limit is 3
minutes, one time per item, there are instructions at the podium for the timer light. Please direct
 all comments to the Mayor. No responses will be made by staff or Board during the meeting.
   Please be respectful and help to maintain decorum by not engaging in derogatory and/or
                          demeaning statements or public displays.
A) Roll Call

B) Approval of Agenda

C) Announcements

     1)   National Police Week (May 10-16) and Peace Officers Memorial Day (May 15)
          Proclamation

D) Public Comment
   Any topic not included under Actions & Presentations; 3-minute time limit.

E)   Consent Agenda

     1)   March 30, 2026 Special Meeting Minutes
          April 14, 2026 Regular Meeting Minutes
          April 28, 2026 Regular Meeting Minutes

     2)   License Renewals:
            a) Paonia Liquors, LLC dba Paonia Liquors Liquor License Renewal
            b) Thomas Waldos Tavern LLC dba Thomas Waldos Tavern LLC

     3)   May 12, 2026 Disbursements

F)   Staff Reports

     1)   Town Administrator/Treasurer

     2)   Police Chief

     3)   Public Works Director

G) Actions & Presentations
   Public comments must be related to the agenda item, 3-minute time limit.

     1)   Discussion of an alternate system and discuss termination of the Verkada contract

     2)   Discussion and Review of Security Camera Ordinance — Tabled from April 28, 2026



                                                                                              Page 1 of 118
          Meeting

     3)   Consideration of giving the Planning Commission Authority to look at Chapter 16,
          Article 6, for review and revision.

     4)   Consideration of approving the Smith Center repairs for up to $50,000 for mold
          remediation, electrical and a general contractor.

     5)   Consideration of Change Orders #4 & #5 from KLM

H) Mayor & Trustee Reports

     1)   Ad Hoc Short Term Rentals Committee

I)   Adjournment




                                                                                           Page 2 of 118
                                       As Adopted by:
                                 Town of Paonia, Colorado
                      Resolution No. 2017-10 – Amended May 22, 2018

                                     I. Rules of Procedure

Section 1. Schedule of Meetings. Regular Board of Trustees meetings shall be held on the
second and fourth Tuesdays of each month, except on legal holidays, or as re-scheduled or
amended and posted on the agenda prior to the scheduled meeting.

Section 2. Officiating Officer. The meetings of the Board of Trustees shall be conducted by the
Mayor or, in the Mayor’s absence, the Mayor Pro-Tem. The Town Clerk or a designee of the
Board shall record the minutes of the meetings.
Section 3. Time of Meetings. Regular meetings of the Board of Trustees shall begin at 6:30
p.m. or as scheduled and posted on the agenda. Board Members shall be called to order by the
Mayor. The meetings shall open with the presiding officer leading the Board in the Pledge of
Allegiance. The Town Clerk shall then proceed to call the roll, note the absences and announce
whether a quorum is present. Regular Meetings are scheduled for three hours, and shall be
adjourned at 9:30 p.m., unless a majority of the Board votes in the affirmative to extend the
meeting, by a specific amount of time.
Section 4. Schedule of Business. If a quorum is present, the Board of Trustees shall proceed
with the business before it, which shall be conducted in the following manner. Note that all
provided times are estimated:
                (a) Roll Call - (5 minutes)
                (b) Approval of Agenda - (5 minutes)
                (c) Announcements (5 minutes)
                (d) Recognition of Visitors and Guests (10 minutes)
                (e) Consent Agenda including Approval of Prior Meeting Minutes (10
              minutes)
                (f) Mayor’s Report (10 minutes)
                (g) Staff Reports: (15 minutes)
                    (1) Town Administrator’s Report
                    (2) Public Works Reports
                    (3) Police Report
                    (4) Treasurer Report

                (h) Unfinished Business (45 minutes)
                (i) New Business (45 minutes)
                (j) Disbursements (15 minutes)
                (k) Committee Reports (15 minutes)
                (l) Adjournment
                       * This schedule of business is subject to change and amendment.
Section 5. Priority and Order of Business. Questions relative to the priority of business
and order shall be decided by the Mayor without debate, subject in all cases to an
appeal to the Board of Trustees.

Section 6. Conduct of Board Members. Town Board Members shall treat other Board
Members and the public in a civil and polite manner and shall comply with the
Standards of Conduct for Elected Officials of the Town. Board Members shall address
Town Staff and the Mayor by his/her title, other Board Members by the title of Trustee or


                                                                                         Page 3 of 118
the appropriate honorific (i.e.: Mr., Mrs. or Ms.), and members of the public by the
appropriate honorific. Subject to the Mayor’s discretion, Board Members shall be limited
to speaking two times when debating an item on the agenda. Making a motion, asking
a question or making a suggestion are not counted as speaking in a debate.

Section 7. Presentations to the Board. Items on the agenda presented by individuals,
businesses or other organizations shall be given up to 5 minutes to make a
presentation. On certain issues, presenters may be given more time, as determined by
the Mayor and Town Staff. After the presentation, Trustees shall be given the
opportunity to ask questions.

Section 8. Public Comment. After discussion of an agenda item by the Board of
Trustees has concluded, the Mayor shall open the floor for comment from members of
the public, who shall be allowed the opportunity to comment or ask questions on the
agenda item. Each member of the public wishing to address the Town Board shall be
recognized by the presiding officer before speaking. Members of the public shall speak
from the podium, stating their name, the address of their residence and any group they
are representing prior to making comment or asking a question. Comments shall be
directed to the Mayor or presiding officer, not to an individual Trustee or Town
employee. Comments or questions should be confined to the agenda item or issue(s)
under discussion. The speaker should offer factual information and refrain from
obscene language and personal attacks.

Section 9. Unacceptable Behavior. Disruptive behavior shall result in expulsion from
the meeting.

Section 10. Posting of Rules of Procedure for Paonia Board of Trustees Meetings.
These rules of procedure shall be provided in the Town Hall meeting room for each
Board of Trustees meeting so that all attendees know how the meeting will be
conducted.

II. Consent Agenda

Section 1. Use of Consent Agenda. The Mayor, working with Town Staff, shall place
items on the Consent Agenda. By using a Consent Agenda, the Board has consented to
the consideration of certain items as a group under one motion. Should a Consent
Agenda be used at a meeting, an appropriate amount of discussion time will be allowed
to review any item upon request.
Section 2. General Guidelines. Items for consent are those which usually do not require
discussion or explanation prior to action by the Board, are non-controversial and/or
similar in content, or are those items which have already been discussed or explained
and do not require further discussion or explanation. Such agenda items may include
ministerial tasks such as, but not limited to, approval of previous meeting minutes,
approval of staff reports, addressing routine correspondence, approval of liquor licenses
renewals and approval or extension of other Town licenses. Minor changes in the
minutes such as non-material Scribner errors may be made without removing the
minutes from the Consent Agenda. Should any Trustee feel there is a material error in
the minutes, they should request the minutes be removed from the Consent Agenda for
Board discussion.
Section 3. Removal of Item from Consent Agenda. One or more items may be removed
from the Consent Agenda by a timely request of any Trustee. A request is timely if

                                                                                    Page 4 of 118
made prior to the vote on the Consent Agenda. The request does not require a second
or a vote by the Board. An item removed from the Consent Agenda will then be
discussed and acted on separately either immediately following the consideration of the
Consent Agenda or placed later on the agenda, at the discretion of the Board.

III. Executive Session

Section 1. An executive session may only be called at a regular or special Board
meeting where official action may be taken by the Board, not at a work session of the
Board. To convene an executive session, the Board shall announce to the public in the
open meeting the topic to be discussed in the executive session, including specific
citation to the statute authorizing the Board to meet in an executive session and
identifying the particular matter to be discussed “in as much detail as possible without
compromising the purpose for which the executive session is authorized.” In the event
the Board plans to discuss more than one of the authorized topics in the executive
session, each should be announced, cited and described. Following the announcement
of the intent to convene an executive session, a motion must then be made and
seconded. In order to go into executive session, there must be the affirmative vote of
two thirds (2/3) of Members of the Board.

Section 2. During executive session, minutes or notes of the deliberations should not
be taken. Since meeting minutes are subject to inspection under the Colorado Open
Records Act, the keeping of minutes would defeat the private nature of executive
session. In addition, the deliberations carried out during executive session should not be
discussed outside of that session or with individuals not participating in the session.
 The contexts of an executive session are to remain confidential unless a majority of the
Trustees vote to disclose the contents of the executive session.

Section 3. Once the deliberations have taken place in executive session, the Board
should reconvene in regular session to take any formal action decided upon during the
executive session. If you have questions regarding the wording of the motion or
whether any other information should be disclosed on the record, it is essential for you
to consult with the Town Attorney on these matters.


IV. Subject to Amendment

Section 1. Deviations. The Board may deviate from the procedures set forth in this
Resolution, if, in its sole discretion, such deviation is necessary under the
circumstances.
Section 2. Amendment. The Board may amend these Rules of Procedures Policy from
time to time.




                                                                                    Page 5 of 118
                                      PROCLAMATION
                               National Police Week (May 10-16) and
                               Peace Officers Memorial Day (May 15)
To recognize National Police Week 2026 and to honor the service and sacrifice of those law
enforcement officers killed in the line of duty while protecting our communities and safeguarding our
democracy.

    WHEREAS, in 1962, President John F. Kennedy proclaimed May 15th as National Peace Officers
Memorial Day and the calendar week in which May 15th falls, as National Police Week, and
    WHEREAS, there are more than 800,000 law enforcement officers serving in communities across the
United States, including the dedicated members of the Town of Paonia Colorado Police Department, and
   WHEREAS, there were 43,649 assaults against law enforcement officers in 2021, resulting in
approximately 15,369 injuries, and
    WHEREAS, since the first recorded death in 1791, more than 24,000 law enforcement officers in the
United States have made the ultimate sacrifice and been killed in the line of duty, including one member
of the Town of Paonia Police Department in 1952, and
    WHEREAS, the names of these dedicated public servants are engraved on the walls of the National
Law Enforcement Officers Memorial in Washington, D.C., and
    WHEREAS, 147 police officers were killed in the line of duty in 2024, and
    WHEREAS, the service and sacrifice of all officers killed in the line of duty will be honored during the
National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial Fund’s Annual Candlelight Vigil, on the evening of May
13th, 2025, and
    WHEREAS, the Candlelight Vigil is part of National Police Week, which takes place this year on May
14th-20th, and
    WHEREAS, May 15th is designated as Peace Officers Memorial Day, in honor of all fallen officers and
their families and U.S. flags should be flown at half-staff, and

Now, therefore, I, Paige Smith, Mayor of the Town of Paonia, Colorado, do hereby proclaim May
10th through May 16, 2026, as Police Week in the Town of Paonia, and publicly salutes the service of
law enforcement officers in our community and in communities across the nation.

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the Town of Paonia,
Colorado to be affixed this 12th day of May 2026.

____________________________
Paige Smith, Mayor
Town of Paonia


                                                                                                    Page 6 of 118
                                               Town of Paonia
                                               214 Grand Avenue
                                        Monday, March 30, 2026 6:30 PM
                                      Special Town Board Meeting Minutes


RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS

Mayor Smith calls the meeting to order at 6:30 PM.

 A) Roll Call
    Present:
    Mayor Smith
    Mayor Pro-Tem Stelter (via Zoom)
    Trustee Czech
    Trustee Heck
    Trustee Hunter
    Trustee Mejorado (via Zoom)
    Trustee Tarnow

 B) Approval of Agenda

       Trustee Hunter makes a motion to approve the agenda. Seconded by Trustee Czech.

       The motion carries unanimously.

 C) Actions & Presentations

       1)     Trustee Approval of a Statement of Fact Clarifying Approved Budgets, Purchases and
              Purchasing Policy to be Distributed Publicly.

              Public Comment:
               • Unidentified speaker, unidentified residency, spoke against town surveillance
                 cameras.
               • S. Watson, in-town resident, spoke to lack of balanced review.
               • L. Atul, unidentified residency, spoke to security camera storage.
               • L. Short, in-town resident, spoke to board priorities, spending, and public trust.
               • A. Foster, in-town resident, spoke to spending and better public engagement and
                 communication.
               • J. Park, out-of-town resident, spoke to STR public input.
               • S. Pagano, in-town resident, spoke against usage of public funds for publishing a
                 rebuttal.
               • B. Hebrew, in-town resident, spoke against usage of public funds for publishing
                 rebuttal.
               • R. Byrge, out-of-town resident, spoke in support of cameras and board.
               • S. Barley, out-of-town resident, spoke to surveillance vendors & surveillance risks.
               • P. McCarthy, in-town resident, spoke to criticism of board & administration.
               • S. Patterson, in-town resident, spoke against usage of public funds for publishing

March 30, 2026 Special Board Meeting Minutes                                                        1




                                                                                               Page 7 of 118
                   rebuttal.
               •   C. Patterson, out-of-town resident, spoke against usage of public funds for
                   publishing rebuttal.
               •   J. Ackerman, in-town resident, spoke to better community dialogue, leadership and
                   trust-building.
               •   S. Briscolara, out-of-town resident, spoke in support of the Town Administrator,
                   false claims, and defamation risks.
               •   M. Brandt, in-town resident, spoke to free speech, spending on rebuttal, and
                   communication methods.
               •   L. Thliveris, out-of-town resident, spoke to a balanced discussion rather than paid
                   rebuttals.
               •   S. Yeamans, out-of-town resident, spoke to responsible use of grant funding and
                   town finances.

              The Board discussed responding to a public flyer containing alleged misinformation,
              agreeing that clarification was warranted but differing on approach. Concerns were
              raised about using taxpayer funds for newspaper publication, with preference
              expressed for sharing information through town channels. Trustees emphasized
              keeping the statement factual and neutral, improving communication with the public,
              and avoiding escalation, while some suggested a more interactive or open forum
              instead of a one-way response.

              Trustee Tarnow makes a motion to edit this letter to remove unnecessary
              characterizations and assertions, keep the facts and quickly get it out through the
              town's web page and similar outlets. Seconded by Trustee Hunter.

              Voting Aye:
              Trustee Mejorado
              Trustee Czech
              Trustee Hunter
              Trustee Heck
              Trustee Tarnow

              Voting Nay:
              Mayor Pro-Tem Stelter

              The motion carries.

              Following the motion, the Board discussed whether the proposed edits to the letter
              needed to be completed during the same meeting. Concerns were raised that
              substantive changes might require full Board agreement in real time to comply with
              open meeting requirements. Town Attorney Buchner clarified that while specific
              wording did not need to be included in the motion, the Board must agree on the
              changes before adopting the final document, prompting the Board to proceed with
              live edits.

              The Board agreed to revise the statement to remove accusatory and subjective
              language, replacing references to an “anonymous” or “libelous” posting with more
              neutral phrasing indicating that the Board believed the posting contained false or

March 30, 2026 Special Board Meeting Minutes                                                           2




                                                                                                    Page 8 of 118
              misleading information. Entire sections considered argumentative or unnecessary
              were deleted, and the overall tone was shifted to focus strictly on factual clarification
              rather than intent or opinion. The budget and finance sections were largely retained
              with minimal edits, while the tree section was expanded to note that many older trees
              are beyond their life expectancy and that the Town will work with a certified arborist
              on a replacement plan. The camera section was revised to remove implications of
              surveillance or facial recognition, clarifying instead that cameras are used to identify
              and address vandalism more quickly. The closing language was softened to
              acknowledge that the statement may not resolve all concerns, and general edits were
              made throughout to simplify wording, remove redundancy, and present a unified,
              fact-based response.

              Trustee Hunter makes a motion to accept the changes as just discussed. Seconded by
              Trustee Heck.

              The motion carries unanimously.

 D) Adjournment

       Mayor Smith adjourns the meeting at 8:12 PM.




________________________                                         ___________________________
Samira M. Vetter, Town Clerk                                     Paige Smith, Mayor




March 30, 2026 Special Board Meeting Minutes                                                              3




                                                                                                   Page 9 of 118
                                                  Town of Paonia
                                                 214 Grand Avenue
                                           Tuesday, April 28, 2026 6:30 PM
                                            Town Board Meeting Minutes

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS

Mayor Smith calls the meeting to order at 6:30 PM.

 A) Roll Call
    Present:
    Mayor Smith
    Mayor Pro-Tem Stelter
    Trustee Czech
    Trustee Heck
    Trustee Hunter
    Trustee Mejorado

       Absent:
       Trustee Tarnow (excused)

 B) Approval of Agenda

       Mayor Smith suggested modifying the agenda by removing the April 14, 2026 Regular
       Meeting Minutes from the Consent Agenda due to them not being included in the packet.

       Trustee Hunter makes a motion to approve the agenda with the removal of the April 14,
       2026, Regular Meeting Minutes from the Consent Agenda. Seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem
       Stelter.

       The motion carries unanimously.

 C) Announcements

       Mayor Smith announced openings on the Zoning Board of Adjustments (no residency
       required, meets as needed) and the Planning Commission (in-town residency required,
       meets monthly), with applications due May 5th at noon. Town Administrator Wynn also
       promoted a community “Ride to School” bike event hosted by The Nature Connection
       on May 6 at 7:30 AM starting at Paonia Care & Rehab and ending at the park.

 D) Public Comment

       D. Arnon – comments on Flock cameras.
       B. Brunner – Comments on finance system, audits, records, trustee rights, and on
       appointment of officers.
       P. Erickson – Comments on financial transparency and climbing gym.


April 28, 2026 Regular Board Meeting Minutes                                                   1




                                                                                          Page 10 of 118
 E) Consent Agenda

       Mayor Pro-Tem Stelter makes a motion to approve the Consent Agenda. Seconded by
       Trustee Heck.

       The motion carries unanimously.

 F) Staff Reports

       Town Administrator Wynn reported that a Region 10 mini-grant project is underway to
       replace Grand Avenue banners, update “Welcome to Paonia” signage, and install new
       directional parking signs, with design work completed and fabrication in progress, and the
       project on track for completion by the end of May.

 G) Public Hearing
    1) Consideration of a request for approval of a Special Use Review application to add an
        additional guest parking spot west of Unit #4 in the Silver Leaf Co-Housing
        Development from Michael Cook at the Address 1200 3rd St, Unit 4, Paonia CO
              81428. This Public hearing had been continued from November 3rd, 2025 Planning
              Commission meeting.

              Mayor Smith opens the public hearing at 6:43 PM.

              Clerk Vetter confirms proper notification.

              Trustee Hunter recuses herself due to a conflict of interest.

              Coordinator Bachran gives the staff report and reads the HOA approval into the
              record.

              Stephanie Fanos, legal counsel for the applicant, is sworn in and gives a presentation
              on the reason for Mr. Cook’s request.

              Jeff Ruppert, engineer, is sworn in and presents the changes made on the
              recommendation of staff from the Planning Commission Public Hearing.

              Public Comment:

              P. Jackson – Comments on not being able to hear.

              There were no objections made to the evidence in the record.

              Trustee Czech requested clarification from the Town Attorney Buchner regarding the
              appropriate legal mechanism for approving the request, given that the proposed
              improvement impacts the public right-of-way. Town Attorney Buchner advised that
              approval could be structured to include a condition requiring an easement or similar
              legal instrument, ensuring that maintenance and liability for the improvement are

April 28, 2026 Regular Board Meeting Minutes                                                           2




                                                                                               Page 11 of 118
              assigned to the applicant while protecting the Town’s interests.

              Mayor Smith closes the public hearing at 7:14 PM.

              Mayor Pro-Tem Stelter makes a motion to approve the application with the condition
              of recording an easement to allow the project and the applicant accepting
              responsibility for maintenance and liability for the public right of way on the
              easement as a condition of approval, and also that the HOA approves this as well.
              Seconded by Trustee Mejorado.

              The motion carries unanimously.

       2)     Consideration of Request for Approval of 232 Grand Ave LLC, Special Use Review
              of their installation of an ADA accessible ramp on Public Property at 232 Grand
              Avenue, Paonia, CO 81428.

              Mayor Smith opens the public hearing at 7:15 PM.

              Clerk Vetter confirms proper notification.

              Trustee Hunter recuses herself due to a conflict of interest.

              Coordinator Bachran gives the staff report.

              Applicants Emily Sinclair and Jay Kenney are sworn in and make their presentation
              of their request.

              Public Comment:

              Coordinator Bachran reads into the record letters of support received from Betsy
              Marsten and Elizabeth Heidrick (a business owner).

              P. Jackson – Comments in support of approval.

              There were no objections made to the evidence in the record.

              Mayor Smith closes the public hearing at 7:39 PM.

              Mayor Pro-Tem Stelter makes a motion to recommend the condition approval of
              SRV 2026-17, subject to engineering approval and limitations on where sidewalk
              use permits allow objects to sit. Seconded by Trustee Czech.

              The motion carries unanimously.

 H) Actions & Presentations

       Trustee Hunter rejoins the meeting at 7:42 PM.


April 28, 2026 Regular Board Meeting Minutes                                                       3




                                                                                             Page 12 of 118
       1)     Swearing In of New Trustees and Recognition of Trustees Finished Serving Their
              Terms - Mayor Smith & Town Clerk Vetter

              Mayor Smith formally recognized and thanked outgoing trustees for their service
              to the Town.

              Clerk Vetter administered the oath of office to newly elected trustees: Sheree
              Fischer, Anne Lee Foster, Lucy Hunter, Calla Rose Ostrander (via Zoom), and
              Hector Mejorado.

              Trustee Fischer makes a motion for a 10-minute recess. Seconded by Trustee
              Mejorado.

              The motion carries unanimously.

              The Board goes into recess at 7:48 PM.

              The Board reconvenes at 7:58 PM.

       2)     Selection of Mayor Pro-Tem - Board of Trustees

              Town Clerk Vetter explained the Mayor Pro-Tem roles and responsibilities. Trustee
              Hunter asked whether any trustees were willing to serve. Trustee Mejorado and
              Trustee Fischer indicated willingness to serve in that role.

              Trustee Czech makes a motion to nominate Trustee Mejorado for Mayor Pro-Tem.
              Seconded by Trustee Hunter.

              The motion carries unanimously.

       3)     Appointment to the Ad Hoc Short Term Rental Committee - Board of Trustees

              The Board discussed filling the trustee vacancy on the Ad Hoc Short Term Rental
              Committee after former Mayor Pro-Tem Stelter’s term ended. No public comment
              was received. Trustee Ostrander asked whether Trustee Fisher would be willing to
              serve, and Trustee Fisher stated she'd be willing.

              Trustee Ostrander makes a motion to nominate Trustee Fischer to the Ad Hoc
              Committee for Short Term Rentals. Seconded by Trustee Hunter.

              The motion carries unanimously.

       4)     Appointing a Trustee to the Planning Commission - Board of Trustees

              The Board discussed filling a Trustee position on the Planning Commission, including
              eligibility and willingness to serve.

              Public Comment:

              D. Arnon – Nominates Trustee Ostrander.
April 28, 2026 Regular Board Meeting Minutes                                                       4




                                                                                               Page 13 of 118
              M. Payne – Nominates Trustee Foster

              Trustee Foster makes a motion to nominate Trustee Fischer to the Planning
              Commission. Seconded by Trustee Ostrander.

              The motion carries unanimously.

       5)     Consideration of Resolution 04-2026 Appointment of Officers - Town Clerk Vetter

              Town Clerk Vetter introduced Resolution 04-2026 as a routine post-election item to
              appoint Town officers; however, the discussion shifted to public comment.

              Public Comment:

              S. Pagano - Spoke of separation between Town Administrator & Treasurer.
              P. McCarthy - Spoke to financial oversight and opposing appointments.
              P. Jackson - Spoke against blanket appointments.
              B. Brunner - Spoke of legality of appointments.
              R. Stelter - Spoke of Town Administrator vetting process and support of reliable
              treasurer.
              S. Kaldis - Spok to oversight and separation of roles for Town Administrator &
              Treasurer.

              Some trustees expressed a need for additional time to better understand the Town’s
              financial systems, reporting, and the roles associated with the appointed positions
              before making a decision.

              Trustee Ostrander makes a motion that we do give the Board 30 days to consider all
              the information and learn the systems before coming to an informed vote on the
              matter. Seconded by Trustee Foster.

              The motion carries unanimously.

              Town Clerk Vetter confirms the item discussion will be on the May 28, 2026 Board
              Meeting, which falls closest to the 30-day timing.

       6)     Consideration of Resolution 05-26 Authorized Signatories - Town Clerk Vetter

              Town Clerk Vetter explained that the resolution establishes authorized signatories for
              Town financial accounts as part of internal controls, typically including the Mayor,
              Mayor Pro-Tem, Town Administrator, Town Clerk, and Finance Committee members.
              The Board briefly discussed the process and required update following the new Mayor
              Pro-Tem appointment.

              Trustee Hunter makes a motion to adopt Resolution 26-06 Authorized Signers, with
              the insertion of Mayor Pro-Tem Mejorado. Seconded by Trustee Czech.

              The motion carries unanimously.

       7)     Consideration of Street Name Sign Replacement Proposal - Public Works Supervisor
April 28, 2026 Regular Board Meeting Minutes                                                        5




                                                                                              Page 14 of 118
              Byrge

              Public Works Supervisor Byrge presented a proposal to replace faded and illegible
              street name signs and to standardize signage throughout Town.

              Public Comment:

              S. Kaldis - Comments on Wayfinding Plan.
              B. Brunner - Comments on poles.
              P. McCarthy - Comments on trees and staff time.
              C. Patterson - Comments on crosswalks.

              Discussion focused on improving uniformity, removing prefixes/suffixes and
              arrows, ensuring compliance with MUTCD signage standards, costs, and balancing
              aesthetics with regulatory requirements before moving forward with replacement.

              D. Arnon - Comments on plastic vs. concrete.
              E. Short - Comments on recommendations made by Public Works.
              M. Payne - Comments on long-lasting way finding and fiscal responsibility.
              G. Henderson - Comments on police response without wayfinding.

              Board discussion included install costs, materials, and staff time.

              Trustee Czech makes a motion to have Public Works to reach out to have street
              sings that comply with MUTCD standards, remove prefixes and suffixes lines that
              are there, and move forward with Brimar supplier. Seconded by Trustee Fischer.

              The Board discussed the Creative District signage recommendations versus MUTCD
              regulatory requirements.

              The motion carries unanimously.

       8)     Consideration of Whether to Turn Some Cameras Off while an Adequate Framework
              of Governance is Put Into Place - Town Staff & Board of Trustees

              Town Administrator Wynn provides background on the Verkada questions. Town
              Attorney Buckner provides answers to questions brought by members of the public
              and speaks to legality of cameras.

              Trustee Hunter makes a motion to extend the meeting to 10:30 PM. Seconded by
              Trustee Fischer.

              The motion carries unanimously.

              Police Chief Laiminger comments about his department’s use of the cameras and the
              policies they hold themselves to.

              Police Sergeant Henderson adds to the comments and usage of the cameras by the
              Police Department.

April 28, 2026 Regular Board Meeting Minutes                                                      6




                                                                                            Page 15 of 118
              Public Works Director Poulos comments about Public Works use of cameras.

              Town Clerk Vetter comments on the Clerk’s office use of cameras.

              Board discussion topics included encryption, Verkada, local vs cloud-based storage,
              ownership of data, facial recognition, administrative access, remote access, disabling
              camera capability locally.

              Trustee Czech makes a motion for a 5-minute recess.

              The motion dies for lack of a second.

              Mayor Pro-Tem Mejorado takes over to chair the meeting while Mayor Smith
              stepped out for a few minutes.

              Public Comment:

              L. Bodenhamer – comments on cameras in the park.

              Mayor Smith returns to the meeting and resumes her role as chair at 10:40 PM.

              M. Payne – comments on Ai and farming.
              C. Bookout – comments on tone deafness, price justification, and cameras in the park.
              P. Erickson – comments on cameras in less locations and facial recognition.
              P. McCarthy – comments on audit logs and camera initiative rejections.
              P. Jackson – comments on policies and accessible data.
              S. Patterson – comments on staff having access to cameras.
              S. Pagano – comments against cameras in specific location and ownership of data.
              J. Lage – comments on hackers and closed-loop systems.
              A. Lage – comments on public safety, access, and closed loop systems.
              E. Brown – comments on cameras infringing on family life.
              I. Cobb – Comments on cameras no stopping crim.

              Trustee Hunter makes a motion to extend the meeting until 11:00 PM. Seconded by
              Trustee Foster.

              The motion carries unanimously.

              S. Kaldis – comments on her experience with cameras and problems with staff.
              G. Carlson – comments on community help and support.
              K. Curr (?) – comments on federal agencies and access.
              D. Arnon – comments on surveillance state, camera prohibition, autonomous robot
              moratorium.
              B. Brunner – comment on panopticon, captivity, and grudge.
              Ben (?) – comments on feeling unsafe.
              M. Doden – comments on cameras on Grand and in the park.
              J. Hill – comments on constant reporting, data, and images being sold.

April 28, 2026 Regular Board Meeting Minutes                                                           7




                                                                                               Page 16 of 118
              C. Patterson – comments on initiatives being stopped.
              B. Hebrew – comments on access.
              D. Bachran – comments as an employee about office camera.

              After public comment, the Board discussed whether the current camera system should
              remain active before a formal governance framework was adopted. Discussion
              focused on authority to footage access, camera review control, operational needs at
              infrastructure sites, concerns regarding privacy and surveillance, and whether some
              cameras should be temporarily disabled until clearer policies and oversight procedures
              were established.

              Trustee Foster makes a motion to extend the meeting to 11:15 PM. Seconded by
              Trustee Hunter.

              The motion carries unanimously.

              Trustee Hunter makes a motion to move Actions & Presentation items #9 Discussion
              and Review of Security Camera Ordinance and item #12 Consideration of Not
              Charging for Flowerpots on a Sidewalk for Business Use Permit, to the May 12, 2026
              meeting. Seconded by Trustee Fischer.

              The motion carries unanimously.

              Trustee Hunter makes a motion that the town effective immediately disabled all
              cameras at the park and the front of exterior camera of town hall. Seconded by
              Mayor Pro-Tem Mejorado.

              Trustee Hunter makes a motion to amend her motion to include disabling the camera
              in the Community Room. Seconded by Mayor Pro-Tem Mejorado.

              The amendment motion carries unanimously.

              Trustee Hunter makes a motion to further amend her motion to extend the time that
              the cameras be disabled to 11:30 PM today. Seconded by Trustee Fisher.

              The amendment to the motion carries unanimously.

              The original motion carries unanimously.

              Trustee Ostrander makes a motion to direct staff to please share the contract with
              Verkata with the Trustees, to continue and/or finalize the cost estimate for a closed
              loop system on-site. And to add to the agenda, discussion of a different system and
              discussion of determining termination of the Verkata contract. Seconded by Trustee
              Mejorado.

              The motion carries unanimously.

       9)     Discussion and Review of Security Camera Ordinance - Tabled from April 14, 2026

April 28, 2026 Regular Board Meeting Minutes                                                          8




                                                                                               Page 17 of 118
              Meeting

              Tabled to May 12, 2026 Board Meeting.

       10) Consideration of Task Order from SGM to Repurpose Temporary Tank to Raw Water
           Storage Tank - Town Administrator/Treasurer Wynn

              Town Administrator Wynn presented a task order from SGM for engineering and
              permitting services to convert the temporary potable water tank into a long-term raw
              water storage tank.

              Board discussion focused on drought preparedness, increasing water storage capacity,
              preserving the temporary tank for future operational resiliency, project costs, and the
              expectation that the work could remain within the overall budget of the existing tank
              rehabilitation project.

              Trustee Hunter makes a motion to approve task order with SGM in amount not to
              exceed $10,000 as designed and permitting services to convert the temporary potable
              water tank into permanent raw water storage tank and authorized the Town
              Administrator and Treasurer to execute all necessary documents. Seconded by
              Trustee Fischer.

              The motion carries unanimously.

       11) Consideration of Change Order #3 for KLM Engineering - Town
           Administrator/Treasurer Wynn

              Town Administrator Wynn presented Change Order #3 for KLM Engineering to cover
              additional construction inspection services related to delays in the water tank
              rehabilitation project.

              Board discussion focused on increased inspection costs caused by contractor delays,
              liquidated damages being assessed against the contractor, and expectations that the
              overall project would still remain under the original estimated budget.

              Trustee Czech makes a motion to approve the Change Order #3 for KLM Engineering
              in the amount of $26,700 increasing the total not to exceed contract amount of
              $90,423 and authorize the Town Administrator to execute the agreement. Seconded
              by Trustee Foster.

              The motion carries unanimously.

       12) Consideration of Not Charging for Flowerpots on a Sidewalk for Business Use Permit
           - Mayor Smith

              Tabled to May 12, 2026 Board Meeting.

 I)    Mayor & Trustee Reports


April 28, 2026 Regular Board Meeting Minutes                                                            9




                                                                                               Page 18 of 118
       Town Administrator Wynn reported that the previous Ad Hoc Short Term Rentals
       Committee meeting was canceled due to lack of committee members, but another meeting
       was scheduled for the following week. He stated the facilitator contract was nearly
       finalized pending legal review and noted that insurance requirements in the agreement had
       been reduced to align with the facilitator’s existing coverage limits.

       Public Comment:

       P. McCarthy comments on prolonged STR process and his initiative.

 J)    Adjournment

       Mayor Smith adjourns the meeting at 11:08 PM.




________________________                                  ___________________________
Samira M. Vetter, Town Clerk                              Paige Smith, Mayor




April 28, 2026 Regular Board Meeting Minutes                                                   10




                                                                                          Page 19 of 118
                  TOWN OF PAONIA
                  BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING
                  STAFF REPORT




AGENDA ITEM:      Consent Agenda: Liquor License Renewal – Paonia Liquors LLC dba
                  Paonia Liquors
SUBMITTED BY:     Ruben Santiago, Deputy Clerk

DATE:             05/07/2026

BACKGROUND:       Finding of Facts:

                      •   This has been reviewed by Police, Public Works and for Zoning
                          and there are no issues found or concerns reported (reports
                          attached).
                      •   License Renewal Paperwork is in the possession of the Town
                          Clerk
                      •   State and Local fees have been paid and a copy of the payment
                          receipts are in the custody of the Town Clerk.




BUDGET:           $197.50 to – 10-32-01 – Liquor Licenses.

RECOMMENDATION:   All legal requirements have been met for the renewal of this license.


ATTACHMENT:       Paonia Liquors Liquor License Application_Redacted
                  Paonia Liquors Payment Receipts
                  Police Report
                  Public Works Report
                  Zoning Report




                                                                                     Page 20 of 118
Page 21 of 118
Page 22 of 118
Page 23 of 118
Page 24 of 118
Page 25 of 118
Page 26 of 118
Town of Paonia
PO Box 460
214 Grand Avenue
Paonia CO 81428-0460                             (970)527-4101

Receipt No: 1.000190464                            Apr 14, 2026


PAONIA LIQUORS

Previous Balance:                                         .00
App. Fees, Licenses - Liquor License RENEWAL           197.50

Total:                                                 197.50         APR 1 k 2026

Check              Check No: 4931                      197.50      TOWN OF PAONIA
Total Applied:                                         197.50     214 GRAND AVENUE

Change Tendered:                                           .00

                            04/14/2026 1:51 PM




                                                                                Page 27 of 118
                                   Town of Paonia
                                    214 Grand AVenue                              no.    359665
                                     Paonia CO 81428                          W- /€/ '
                                       970-527-4101




RECEIPT
          RECEIVED FROM _ \          t gA-        c?t       ___________             $1      >
             K                                          r    APR 1 k wk
                                                                                            DOLLARS

          for4( <?   jo - _S H77, C€>
                                               ——of Paonia----------
          AMOUNTOFACCOUNT
                                                □ cAs£$<Gf^tJA^ENUJ±<
                                               >□ CHECK               '
                 THIS PAYMENT       6^5         □ CREDIT CARD    BY       ■   ____\J
                     BALANCE DUE                □ MONEY ORDER
                                                                                                  —✓




                                                                                                       Page 28 of 118
Ruben Santiago

From:                       Matt Laiminger
Sent:                       Monday, May 4, 2026 2:40 PM
To:                         Ruben Santiago
Subject:                    Re: Paonia Liquors License Renewal



Ruben,

The PD recommends renewing the liquor license for Paonia Liquors.

Thank you,


             Matthew Laiminger
             Chief of Police
             Town of Paonia
             214 Grand Ave.
             Paonia, CO 81428
             (970) 527-4822




                                                         1
                                                                    Page 29 of 118
Ruben Santiago

From:                                 Nicki P
Sent:                                 Tuesday, April 14, 2026 2:44 PM
To:                                   Ruben Santiago; Matt Laiminger; Stefen Wynn
Cc:                                   Daoine B; Samira Vetter
Subject:                              Re: Paonia Liquors License Renewal



Public Works is in favor of renewing Paonia Liquor’s liquor license.

Happy vacation!

Nicki

Get Outlook for iOS

From: Ruben Santiago <RubenS@townofpaonia.com>
Sent: Tuesday, April 14, 2026 2:41:23 PM
To: Nicki P <nickip@townofpaonia.com>; Matt Laiminger <mlaimingerppd@townofpaonia.com>; Stefen Wynn
<StefenW@townofpaonia.com>
Cc: Daoine B <DaoineB@townofpaonia.com>; Samira Vetter <SamiraV@townofpaonia.com>
Subject: Paonia Liquors License Renewal

Good afternoon,

When you have time, can you please provide the written report recommendations from the following for Paonia
Liquor’s liquor license renewal:

       Public Works
       Police/Fire Department
       Zoning (Administration)

We have plenty of time before expiration but wanted to put it out there before I left for vacation.

Best,
Ruben

Upcoming Out of Office: Thursday, April 16 to Friday April 24.
Returning to the Office: Monday, April 27, 2026.

                          Ruben Santiago,
                          Deputy Clerk / CIW Associate /
                          Colorado Notary Public
                          Office : (970) 527-4101 x2003
                          Cell: (970) 742-4657
                          E : RubenS@townofpaonia.com
                          214 Grand Ave.
                          Paonia, CO 81428
                          https://townofpaonia.colorado.gov/

Sender and receiver should be mindful that all my incoming and outgoing emails may be subject to the Colorado Open Records Act, § 24-72-
100.1, et seq.


                                                                    1
                                                                                                                     Page 30 of 118
Ruben Santiago

From:                               Daoine B
Sent:                               Wednesday, April 15, 2026 11:31 AM
To:                                 Ruben Santiago; Stefen Wynn
Cc:                                 Samira Vetter
Subject:                            RE: Paonia Liquors License Renewal


The subject property is located within C-1, the Core Commercial District which has the following intent, “It is the intent of
this District to provide for the orderly development of those commercial and business uses, government, educational and
cultural facilities that are characteristic of downtown areas and promote comparison shopping and pedestrian activity in
the core area. This District is not intended for businesses and commercial uses that are oriented to the automobile and
require extensive ground-level loor area.” Permissible uses in the district include uses that typically serve alcohol
including restaurants. From a zoning perspective, there isn’t an issue with the use within the subject property’s zoning
district.

Best,

                     Daoine Bachran, Ph.D., R.S.O.
                           (pronounced “theena backrun”)
                     Utility Billing & Permit Coordinator
                     Office:   (970) 527-4101
                     Cell:      (970) 575-1565
                     Email:     daoineb@townofpaonia.com

                     214 Grand Ave. | PO Box 460
                     Paonia, CO 81428
                     https://townofpaonia.colorado.gov/

Sender and receiver should be mindful that all my incoming and outgoing emails may be subject to the Colorado Open Records
Act, § 24-72-100.1, et seq.


From: Ruben Santiago <RubenS@townofpaonia.com>
Sent: Tuesday, April 14, 2026 2:41 PM
To: Nicki P <nickip@townofpaonia.com>; Matt Laiminger <mlaimingerppd@townofpaonia.com>; Stefen Wynn
<StefenW@townofpaonia.com>
Cc: Daoine B <DaoineB@townofpaonia.com>; Samira Vetter <SamiraV@townofpaonia.com>
Subject: Paonia Liquors License Renewal

Good afternoon,

When you have time, can you please provide the written report recommendations from the following for Paonia
Liquor’s liquor license renewal:

       Public Works
       Police/Fire Department
       Zoning (Administration)

We have plenty of time before expiration but wanted to put it out there before I left for vacation.

Best,
Ruben



                                                                1
                                                                                                            Page 31 of 118
Upcoming Out of O ice: Thursday, April 16 to Friday April 24.
Returning to the O ice: Monday, April 27, 2026.

                          Ruben Santiago,
                          Deputy Clerk / CIW Associate /
                          Colorado Notary Public
                          Of ice : (970) 527-4101 x2003
                          Cell: (970) 742-4657
                          E : RubenS@townofpaonia.com
                          214 Grand Ave.
                          Paonia, CO 81428
                          https://townofpaonia.colorado.gov/

Sender and receiver should be mindful that all my incoming and outgoing emails may be subject to the Colorado Open Records Act, § 24-72-
100.1, et seq.




                                                                    2
                                                                                                                     Page 32 of 118
                  TOWN OF PAONIA
                  BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING
                  STAFF REPORT




AGENDA ITEM:      Consent Agenda: Liquor License Renewal – Thomas Waldos Tavern
                  LLC dba Thomas Waldos Tavern LLC
SUBMITTED BY:     Ruben Santiago, Deputy Clerk

DATE:             05/07/2026

BACKGROUND:       Finding of Facts:

                      •   This has been reviewed by Police, Public Works and for Zoning
                          and there are no issues found or concerns reported (reports
                          attached).
                      •   License Renewal Paperwork is in the possession of the Town
                          Clerk
                      •   State and Local fees have been paid and a copy of the payment
                          receipts are in the custody of the Town Clerk.




BUDGET:           $500.00 to – 10-32-01 – Liquor Licenses.

RECOMMENDATION:   All legal requirements have been met for the renewal of this license.


ATTACHMENT:       Thomas Waldos Tavern Liquor License Renewal Application_Redacted
                  Thomas Waldos Tavern DOR Payment Receipt
                  Thomas Waldos Tavern ToP Payment Receipt
                  Thomas Waldos Tavern 2026 Lease_Redacted
                  Police Report
                  Public Works Report
                  Zoning Report




                                                                                     Page 33 of 118
Page 34 of 118
Page 35 of 118
Page 36 of 118
Page 37 of 118
Page 38 of 118
Page 39 of 118
/--------------------------------------------------------
                               Town of Paonia
                                  214 Grand AVenue                                           NO.   359668
                                   Paonia CO 81428
                                     970-527-4101




RECEIPT
                                                                               DATE

          RECEIVED FROM. ‘‘“'TTuavMfl?                      ______________________________    SlyT-M    ■‘“l

             CCVv'g                                               -T, k               .C^e            DOLLARS

          FOR_                                      r       *&><>■£<■(________________________


          AMOUNT OF ACCOUNT                      □ cash
                                                 £S]»CHECK <-*
                 THIS PAYMENT
                                //2^(            □ CREDIT CARD
                 BALANCE DUE                     □ MONEY ORDER




                                                                                                     Page 40 of 118
Town of Paonia
PO Box 460
214 Grand Avenue
Paonia CO 81428-0460                                  (970)527-4101

Receipt No: 1.000190705                                 May 5, 2026


THOMAS WALDOS
                                                                         MAY 0 5 2026     |
Previous Balance:                                               .00
App. Fees, Licenses - Liquor License RENEWAL 500.00         500.00     TOWN OF PAONIA
                                                                      214 GRAND AVENUE
Total:                                                      500.00

Check              Check No: 5097                           500.00
Total Applied:                                              500.00

Change Tendered:                                                .00

                               Duplicate Copy

                             05/05/2026 4:11 PM




                                                                                        Page 41 of 118
Page 42 of 118
Page 43 of 118
Ruben Santiago

From:                       Matt Laiminger
Sent:                       Thursday, May 7, 2026 11:34 AM
To:                         Samira Vetter
Cc:                         Ruben Santiago
Subject:                    Thomas Waldo's Liquor License Renewal



Sam,

The PD recommends renewing the liquor license for Thomas Waldo's.

Thank you,


             Matthew Laiminger
             Chief of Police
             Town of Paonia
             214 Grand Ave.
             Paonia, CO 81428
             (970) 527-4822




                                                       1
                                                                    Page 44 of 118
                                                                  Town of Paonia
                                                                          214 Grand Ave.
                                                                       Paonia, CO 81428
                                                                      O: (970) 527-4101
                                                               Paonia@TownofPaonia.com


May 6, 2026

RE: Thomas Waldos Renewal Liquor License


Paonia Public Works agrees to the renewal of Thomas Waldo’s liquor license as long as
boundary lines have not changed.


Nicki Poulos
Paonia Public Works Director




                                                                               Page 45 of 118
Ruben Santiago

From:                                 Daoine B
Sent:                                 Friday, May 8, 2026 8:15 AM
To:                                   Ruben Santiago; Stefen Wynn
Subject:                              RE: Important: Thomas Waldo's Liquor License Renewal


The subject property is located within C-1, the Core Commercial District which has the following intent, “It is the intent of
this District to provide for the orderly development of those commercial and business uses, government, educational and
cultural facilities that are characteristic of downtown areas and promote comparison shopping and pedestrian activity in
the core area. This District is not intended for businesses and commercial uses that are oriented to the automobile and
require extensive ground-level loor area.” Permissible uses in the district include uses that typically serve alcohol
including restaurants. From a zoning perspective, there isn’t an issue with the use within the subject property’s zoning
district.


                       Daoine Bachran, Ph.D., R.S.O.
                             (pronounced “theena backrun”)
                       Utility Billing & Permit Coordinator
                       Office:   (970) 527-4101
                       Cell:      (970) 575-1565
                       Email:     daoineb@townofpaonia.com

                       214 Grand Ave. | PO Box 460
                       Paonia, CO 81428
                       https://townofpaonia.colorado.gov/

Sender and receiver should be mindful that all my incoming and outgoing emails may be subject to the Colorado Open Records
Act, § 24-72-100.1, et seq.


From: Ruben Santiago <RubenS@townofpaonia.com>
Sent: Thursday, May 7, 2026 12:15 PM
To: Stefen Wynn <StefenW@townofpaonia.com>
Cc: Daoine B <DaoineB@townofpaonia.com>
Subject: FW: Important: Thomas Waldo's Liquor License Renewal
Importance: High

Since Daoine is out, can you write up a brief Zoning recommendation on the renewal of their liquor license?

Ruben

                          Ruben Santiago,
                          Deputy Clerk / CIW Associate /
                          Colorado Notary Public
                          Of ice : (970) 527-4101 x2003
                          Cell: (970) 742-4657
                          E : RubenS@townofpaonia.com
                          214 Grand Ave.
                          Paonia, CO 81428
                          https://townofpaonia.colorado.gov/

Sender and receiver should be mindful that all my incoming and outgoing emails may be subject to the Colorado Open Records Act, § 24-72-
100.1, et seq.


From: Ruben Santiago
Sent: Wednesday, May 6, 2026 8:33 AM
To: Daoine B <DaoineB@townofpaonia.com>; Nicki P <nickip@townofpaonia.com>; Matt Laiminger
                                                                    1
                                                                                                                     Page 46 of 118
<mlaimingerppd@townofpaonia.com>
Cc: Samira Vetter <SamiraV@townofpaonia.com>; Ruben Santiago <RubenS@townofpaonia.com>
Subject: Important: Thomas Waldo's Liquor License Renewal

Good morning.

and we would like to place this item on the upcoming Board agenda for approval. The applicant has paid all
required fees, including the applicable late ﬁling fees for both the State and the Local Authority (Town).

Given the timeline, I understand PD may not have su icient time to meet with the applicant prior to the
meeting. When you have an opportunity, please provide your written recommendation regarding the renewal
request from:

       Public Works
       Police/Fire Department
       Zoning (Administration)

If you have any questions, please let us know.

Best,
Ruben


                          Ruben Santiago,
                          Deputy Clerk / CIW Associate /
                          Colorado Notary Public
                          Of ice : (970) 527-4101 x2003
                          Cell: (970) 742-4657
                          E : RubenS@townofpaonia.com
                          214 Grand Ave.
                          Paonia, CO 81428
                          https://townofpaonia.colorado.gov/

Sender and receiver should be mindful that all my incoming and outgoing emails may be subject to the Colorado Open Records Act, § 24-72-
100.1, et seq.




                                                                    2
                                                                                                                     Page 47 of 118
Page 48 of 118
Page 49 of 118
Page 50 of 118
Page 51 of 118
Page 52 of 118
Page 53 of 118
Page 54 of 118
Page 55 of 118
Page 56 of 118
Page 57 of 118
Page 58 of 118
Page 59 of 118
Page 60 of 118
Page 61 of 118
Page 62 of 118
Page 63 of 118
                                  Paonia Police
                                   Department
DEPARTMENT BRIEFING: SUMMARY OF PROGRESS                              05/01/2026




   The department completed its annual        Department personnel compiled
   CIRSA audit. This annual audit includes    crash and accident data for the
   an onsite inspection of facilities by      development of a USDOT Safe
   CIRSA personnel as well as training        Streets and Roads for All (SS4A)
   documents and materials verification.      Comprehensive Safety Action Plan
                                              (CSAP). More information on this
                                              plan will be provided in an
                                              upcoming council meeting.




   Department personnel participated in       With both the PK-8 and NFSIS
   the Paonia K-8 Career Fair and             letting out for the summer, the
   Community Safety Day. Officers were        department is asking everyone to
   onsite and met with students to talk       slow down and be observant of the
   about 911 usage and answer general law     increased pedestrian and bicycle
   enforcement questions. Thank you to        traffic that comes with students on
   the PK-8 staff for partnering with us to   summer break.
   put this event on.




                                                                           Page 64 of 118
                   Paonia Police Department
                   Law Incident Table, by Date and Time

Date Occurred: 04/01/26
        Time        Nature                 Address                          Agency   Loctn    Dsp
        17:29:53 Traffic Stop              NIAGARA AVE, Paonia, CO          PPD      PPD      CIT
        Total Incidents for this Date: 1


Date Occurred: 04/02/26
        Time        Nature                 Address                          Agency   Loctn    Dsp
        09:29:41    Traffic Stop           NIAGARA AVE, Paonia, CO          PPD      PPD      CIT


        17:38:28 WELFARE CHECK             DELTA AVE, Paonia, CO            PPD      PPD
        Total Incidents for this Date: 3


Date Occurred: 04/03/26
        Time        Nature                 Address                          Agency   Loctn    Dsp
        16:02:03 Traffic Stop              4TH ST & GRAND AVE, Paonia, CO   PPD      PPD       A
        Total Incidents for this Date: 1


Date Occurred: 04/04/26
        Time        Nature                 Address                          Agency   Loctn    Dsp
        10:01:18    Information            MEADOWBROOK BLVD, Paonia, CO     PPD      PPD

        12:05:30 LOST/FOUND PROP           GRAND AVE, Paonia, CO            PPD      PPD
        15:11:48 Traffic Stop              NIAGARA AVE, Paonia, CO          PPD      PPD      CIT
        19:13:02 Traffic Stop              NIAGARA AVE, Paonia, CO          PPD      PPD      CIT
        20:50:26 WELFARE CHECK             PAN AMERICAN AVE, Paonia, CO     PPD      PPD
        Total Incidents for this Date: 5


Date Occurred: 04/05/26
        Time        Nature                 Address                          Agency   Loctn    Dsp
        12:37:45 HARASSMENT                GRAND AVE, Paonia, CO            PPD      PPD
        14:52:21 Traffic Stop              NIAGARA AVE, Paonia, CO          PPD      PPD      CIT
        18:48:08 Traffic Stop              NIAGARA AVE, Paonia, CO          PPD      PPD
        Total Incidents for this Date: 3


Date Occurred: 04/06/26




rplwlitr.x1                                                                                     05/04/26




                                                                                             Page 65 of 118
Law Incident Table, by Date and Time                                                          Page 2 of 5


        Time        Nature                 Address                           Agency   Loctn     Dsp
        07:29:41    CITIZEN ASSIST         GRAND AVE Paonia, CO              PPD      PPD

        12:30:51    VIN INSPECTION         GRAND AVE, Paonia, CO             PPD      PPD

        14:04:32    CITIZEN ASSIST         GRAND AVE Paonia, CO              PPD      PPD

        Total Incidents for this Date: 3


Date Occurred: 04/07/26
        Time        Nature                 Address                           Agency   Loctn     Dsp
        22:30:29 TRESPASS                  DELTA AVE, Paonia, CO             PPD      PPD       VW
        23:08:57 LOST/FOUND PROP           4th ST, Paonia, CO                PPD      PPD
        Total Incidents for this Date: 2


Date Occurred: 04/08/26
        Time        Nature                 Address                           Agency   Loctn     Dsp
        07:55:04    Parking Problem        3RD ST & POPLAR AVE, Paonia, CO   PPD      PPD
        12:21:36    AGENCY ASSIST          1ST ST & GRAND AVE, Paonia, CO    PPD      PPD
        15:47:54    Traffic Stop           NIAGARA AVE, Paonia, CO           PPD      PPD       CIT
        16:26:26    CIVIL PROBLEM          GRAND AVE, Paonia, CO             PPD      PPD

        18:01:29 Traffic Stop              NIAGARA AVE, Paonia, CO           PPD      PPD       CIT
        Total Incidents for this Date: 5


Date Occurred: 04/10/26
        Time        Nature                 Address                           Agency   Loctn     Dsp
        12:17:10 Information               OAK AVE, Paonia, CO               PPD      PPD
        Total Incidents for this Date: 1


Date Occurred: 04/11/26
        Time        Nature                 Address                           Agency   Loctn     Dsp
        11:26:29 Information               DELTA AVE & 2ND ST, Paonia, CO    PPD
        21:28:25 Traffic Stop              SAMUEL WADE RD, Paonia, CO        PPD      PPD       CIT
        Total Incidents for this Date: 2


Date Occurred: 04/13/26
        Time        Nature                 Address                           Agency   Loctn     Dsp
        15:14:52    VIN INSPECTION         Box Elder Ave, Paonia, CO         PPD      PPD
        15:45:49    CIVIL PROBLEM          POPLAR AVE , Paonia, CO           PPD      PPD

        21:03:39    Information            DELTA AVE, Paonia, CO             PPD      PPD



rplwlitr.x1                                                                                       05/04/26




                                                                                              Page 66 of 118
Law Incident Table, by Date and Time                                                           Page 3 of 5


        Time        Nature                 Address                            Agency   Loctn     Dsp
        Total Incidents for this Date: 3


Date Occurred: 04/14/26
        Time        Nature                 Address                            Agency   Loctn     Dsp
        09:48:16 Traffic Stop              NIAGARA AVE, Paonia, CO            PPD      PPD       CIT
        Total Incidents for this Date: 1


Date Occurred: 04/15/26
        Time        Nature                 Address                            Agency   Loctn     Dsp
        09:43:37 Traffic Stop              NIAGARA AVE, Paonia, CO            PPD      PPD       CIT
        11:19:48 AGENCY ASSIST             2ND ST Paonia, CO                  PPD      PPD       AA
        Total Incidents for this Date: 2


Date Occurred: 04/16/26
        Time        Nature                 Address                            Agency   Loctn     Dsp
        16:27:58 Traffic Stop              1ST ST & NIAGARA AVE, Paonia, CO   PPD      PPD       CIT
        Total Incidents for this Date: 1


Date Occurred: 04/17/26
        Time        Nature                 Address                            Agency   Loctn     Dsp
        19:39:56 Traffic Stop              200 RIO GRANDE AVE, Paonia, CO     PPD      PPD       CIT
        21:34:43 DUI                       2ND ST & ORCHARD AVE, Paonia, CO   PPD      PPD       CIT
        Total Incidents for this Date: 2


Date Occurred: 04/18/26
        Time        Nature                 Address                            Agency   Loctn     Dsp
        01:36:15 DUI                       SAMUEL WADE RD, Paonia, CO         PPD      PPD        A
        17:31:50 Information               3RD ST, Paonia, CO                 PPD      PPD
        22:59:00 Noise Complaint           GRAND AVE, Paonia, CO              PPD      PPD
        Total Incidents for this Date: 3


Date Occurred: 04/19/26
        Time        Nature                 Address                            Agency   Loctn     Dsp
        14:31:01 Code Enforce              RIO GRANDE AVE, Paonia, CO         PPD      PPD       CIT
        Total Incidents for this Date: 1


Date Occurred: 04/20/26




rplwlitr.x1                                                                                        05/04/26




                                                                                               Page 67 of 118
Law Incident Table, by Date and Time                                                           Page 4 of 5


        Time        Nature                 Address                            Agency   Loctn     Dsp
        12:55:35 FALSE REPORT              DELTA AVE, Paonia, CO              PPD      PPD
        15:15:42 Traffic Stop              3RD ST & NIAGARA AVE, Paonia, CO   PPD      PPD       CIT
        Total Incidents for this Date: 2


Date Occurred: 04/21/26
        Time        Nature                 Address                            Agency   Loctn     Dsp
        13:59:22 Traffic Stop              NIAGARA AVE, Paonia, CO            PPD      PPD       CIT
        Total Incidents for this Date: 1


Date Occurred: 04/22/26
        Time        Nature                 Address                            Agency   Loctn     Dsp
        09:32:04 Property Damage           MEADOWBROOK BLVD Paonia, CO         PPD     PPD
        12:13:33 LOST/FOUND PROP            4th ST, Paonia, CO                PPD      PPD
        13:36:59 Traffic Stop               NIAGARA AVE, Paonia, CO            PPD     PPD       CIT
        Total Incidents for this Date: 3


Date Occurred: 04/23/26
        Time        Nature                 Address                            Agency   Loctn     Dsp
        00:29:01    UNATTEND DEATH         BOX ELDER AVE, Paonia, CO          PPD      PPD
        07:25:52    Information            GRAND AVE, Paonia, CO              PPD      PPD       UNF

        14:04:44 Traffic Stop              4th ST, Paonia, CO                 PPD      PPD        A
        21:47:33 DUI                       NIAGARA AVE, Paonia, CO            PPD      PPD        A
        Total Incidents for this Date: 4


Date Occurred: 04/24/26
        Time        Nature                 Address                            Agency   Loctn     Dsp
        12:08:30    VIN INSPECTION         GRAND AVE, Paonia, CO              PPD      PPD

        16:47:28 Information               2ND ST, Paonia, CO                 PPD      PPD
        19:31:46 Traffic Stop              5TH ST & GRAND AVE, Paonia, CO     PPD      PPD       CIT
        21:25:57 ASSAULT                   4th ST, Paonia, CO                 PPD      PPD
        Total Incidents for this Date: 4


Date Occurred: 04/25/26
        Time        Nature                 Address                            Agency   Loctn     Dsp
        18:38:05 Traffic Stop              100 NIAGARA AVE, Paonia, CO        PPD      PPD       CIT
        Total Incidents for this Date: 1


Date Occurred: 04/27/26



rplwlitr.x1                                                                                        05/04/26




                                                                                               Page 68 of 118
Law Incident Table, by Date and Time                                                                            Page 5 of 5


        Time        Natur e                Addr ess                                         Agency      Loctn     Dsp
        16:55:33 WELFARE CHECK             CEDAR DR, Paonia, CO                             PPD         PPD
        Total Incidents for this Date: 1


Date Occurr ed: 04/28/26
        Time         Natur e               Address                                          Agency      Loctn     Dsp
        15:38:11     Information           MEADOWBROOK BLVD Paonia, CO                      PPD         PPD

        15:43:15     AT RISK ADULT         MEADOWBROOK BLVD, Paonia, CO                     PPD         PPD

        16:13:08 Parking Problem           2ND ST & POPLAR AVE, Paonia, CO                  PPD
        Total Incidents for this Date: 3


Date Occurr ed: 04/29/26
        Time         Natur e         Address                                                Agency      Loctn     Dsp
        08:04:08     RESTR/PROT ORDR DELTA AVE, Paonia, CO                                  PPD         PPD        A
        10:53:15     CITIZEN ASSIST  ONARGA AVE, Paonia, CO                                 PPD         PPD

        12:51:05     Traffic Stop          3RD ST & ONARGA AVE, Paonia, CO                  PPD         PPD       CIT
        14:14:27     FRAUD                 GRAND AVE, Paonia, CO                            PPD         PPD

        15:28:40     THEFT                 PAN AMERICAN AVE, Paonia, CO                     PPD         PPD
        16:39:23     Information           POPLAR AVE, Paonia, CO                           PPD         PPD
        18:01:35     SUSPICIOUS            GRAND AVE, Paonia, CO                            PPD         PPD
        18:55:52     SUSPICIOUS            GRAND AVE Paonia, CO                             PPD         PPD

        Total Incidents for this Date: 8


Total reported: 65

   A-5
   AA-2
   CIT-20
   UNF-2
   VW-2

   A= ARREST
   AA=AGENCY ASSIST
   CIT=CITATION
   UNF=UNFOUNDED
   VW=VERBAL WARNING




Report Includes:
All dates between `00:00:01 04/01/26` and `00:00:01 04/30/26`, All agencies matching `PPD`, All disposition's, All natures,
All location codes, All cities

rplwlitr.x1                                                                                                          05/04/26




                                                                                                                Page 69 of 118
Paonia Public Works Monthly Report


April 2026


Water
WWE site visit for WaterSmart
2M tank disinfected and being filled as of 5-7-26


Wastewater
N/A


Streets
Removal of hazardous trees 3rd and on Poplar




                                                    Page 70 of 118
Paonia Public Works Monthly Report


2nd St patch




Pan am patch
In front of Votec patch




                                     Page 71 of 118
Paonia Public Works Monthly Report


Parks
Arbor Day tree – Red Maple in Apple Valley




Working on getting sprinkler pumps and leaks fixed


Trash
Yard Waste Program is started – still finding a rhythm- It’s been very rainy


Other




                                                                               Page 72 of 118
                       TOWN OF PAONIA
                       BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING
                       STAFF REPORT




AGENDA ITEM:      Discussion of an Alternate System and Discuss Termination of the Verkada
                  Contract

SUBMITTED BY:     Samira Vetter, Town Clerk


DATE:             May 12, 2026


BACKGROUND:        When going back to look at the motion of approval for the Verkada security
                  cameras the motion was ‘to waive the procurement and purchasing under Code
                  Section 4-6-80, allowing for a sole source bid, and approve in an amount not to
                  exceed $50, 288, the bid from Mitchell and Company for the Verkada Security
                  Camera System for Town facilities…’

                  Due to the wording of that motion, if the Board of Trustees decides to terminate
                  the contract with Verkada, I believe it can just be done with a regular motion and
                  doesn’t need a motion to rescind as was originally believed.




BUDGET:




RECOMMENDATION:




ATTACHMENT:       V1_P_9113_Cameras
                  Verkada- Mitchell and Co. Quote_signed 8.18.2025
                  August 12, 2026 Regular Minutes
                  Alpine Fencing Proposal




                                                                                             Page 73 of 118
Quoted for:                                                                  Quoted by:
Town of Paonia                                                               cscott
Matt Laiminger                                                               cscott@mitchandco.com
214 Grand Avenue                                                             970-704-9003
Paonia, CO 81428                                                             Tuesday, July 8, 2025

Quote:            P_9113_Cameras

                       Materials:         $41,593            Date:
 Current year recurring:                          $0
                                                       Accepted by:
              Estimated labor:              $8,695

                Total Estimate:          $50,288

              Receipt of this deposit amount will initiate the start of this project.                         $41,593

 Goals
      1 Provide and install CAT6 cabling as neccessary at the following locations as well as labor to install
        verkada cameras.
 Assumptions/Notes
      1 Main Building-Provide and install CAT6 to specified camera locations.
      2 Influent building-Provide and install labor to install one camera.
      3 Main building- Provide and install labor to install outdoor cellular gateway and two cameras.
      4 Town Park - Provide and install labor to install three cameras and neccary componets/cabling.
      5 Town Hall - Provide and install labor to install two exterior cameras as well as two CAT6 cables to
        specified camera locations.
      6 Town hall interior - provide and install labor to install two cameras.

MATERIALS                                                                              Qty           Unit Price        Total

-Cable and Mounting Materials
Cables
  1000 Feet CAT6, terminations, other mounting equipment                                  1           $1,270          $1,270

                                                              Cable and Mounting Materials                       $1,270
-Town Hall - Exterior
IP Cameras
  CF81 Fisheye Series 30 days retention                                                   1           $1,999          $1,999
Peripherals
  Angle Mount Kit                                                                         2              $149           $298


Page 1 of 5    Tuesday, July 8, 2025 1:35:45 PM                                               P_9113_Cameras Proposal Version 1




                                                                                                                Page 74 of 118
Switch
  FortiSwitch 108F-FPOE                                                       1              $612           $612
Warranty, Maintenance and License
  Five Year Cloud Camera License, Capacity Increase                           2              $899         $1,798
  Forticare FS-108F-FPOE Premium Care - 3 Yr                                  1              $180           $180

                                                                     Town Hall - Exterior            $4,887
-Town Hall - Interior
IP Cameras
  CM42 Indoor Dome 30 days retention                                          2              $699         $1,398
Warranty, Maintenance and License
  Five Year Cloud Camera License, Capacity Increase                           2              $899         $1,798

                                                                     Town Hall - Interior            $3,196
-Town Park
IP Cameras
  CF81 Fisheye Series 30 days retention                                       1           $1,999          $1,999
  CH52 Outdoor Multi-sensor dome Camera, 1TB, 30 Days Max                     1           $3,599          $3,599
  CB52-E Outdoor Bullet Series 30 days retention                              1           $1,399          $1,399
Peripherals
  Square Camera Junction Box                                                  1               $90            $90
  Angle Mount Kit                                                             1              $149           $149
Rack and related
  Misc. Rack Equipment - Lockable NEMA enclosure for Pavillion and Gazebo     2              $150           $300
Switch
  FortiSwitch 108F-FPOE                                                       3              $612         $1,836
Warranty, Maintenance and License
  Five Year Cloud Camera License, Capacity Increase                           2             $899          $1,798
  5-Year CH52 Multisensor Camera License                                      1           $2,699          $2,699
  Forticare FS-108F-FPOE Premium Care - 3 Yr                                  3             $180            $540

                                                                              Town Park             $14,409
-Waste Water - Influent Building
IP Cameras
  CB52-E Outdoor Bullet Series 30 days retention                              1           $1,399          $1,399
Peripherals
  Square Camera Junction Box                                                  1               $90             $90
Switch
  FortiSwitch 108F-FPOE                                                       1              $612           $612
Warranty, Maintenance and License
  Five Year Cloud Camera License, Capacity Increase                           1              $899           $899
  Forticare FS-108F-FPOE Premium Care - 3 Yr                                  1              $180           $180
Wireless Access Point
  Building to Building Bridge                                                 1              $599           $599

                                                      Waste Water - Influent Building                $3,779



Page 2 of 5   Tuesday, July 8, 2025 1:35:45 PM                                    P_9113_Cameras Proposal Version 1




                                                                                                    Page 75 of 118
-Waste Water - Main Building
    IP Cameras
      CF81 Fisheye Series 30 days retention                                         1           $1,999          $1,999
    Peripherals
      Angle Mount Kit                                                               1              $149           $149
    Switch
      FortiSwitch 108F-FPOE                                                         1              $612           $612
    Warranty, Maintenance and License
      Five Year Cloud Camera License, Capacity Increase                             1              $899           $899
      Forticare FS-108F-FPOE Premium Care - 3 Yr                                    1              $180           $180

                                                              Waste Water - Main Building                  $3,839
-Water Treatment - Main Building
    IP Cameras
      GC31 Cellular Gateway, Outdoor                                                2           $1,299          $2,598
      CM42 Indoor Dome 30 days retention                                            1             $699            $699
      CF81 Fisheye Series 30 days retention                                         1           $1,999          $1,999
    Peripherals
      Angle Mount Kit                                                               1              $149           $149
    Switch
      FortiSwitch 108F-FPOE                                                         1              $612           $612
    Warranty, Maintenance and License
      Forticare FS-108F-FPOE Premium Care - 3 Yr                                    2              $180           $360
      Five Year Cloud Camera License, Capacity Increase                             2              $899         $1,798
      1-Year Cellular Gateway Data unlimited 1 video                                2              $999         $1,998

                                                          Water Treatment - Main Building                 $10,213

     Total Materials: $41,593


    LABOR                                                                                   Hours                 Total
-
    900-100-CIO - planning, design, strategy
       900-105-Design, analysis, proof of concept                             1 Hourly                          $185
    900-400-New network core device setup
       900-492-Equipment installation and mounting                           30 Hourly                        $5,550

                                                     -    Subtot Labor Hrs/Price:        31.00             $5,735
-Town Hall - Exterior
    900-400-New network core device setup
       900-420-Configure switch - access                                     1 Device/unit                      $370

                               -Town Hall - Exterior      Subtot Labor Hrs/Price:         2.00                $370




    Page 3 of 5   Tuesday, July 8, 2025 1:35:45 PM                                      P_9113_Cameras Proposal Version 1




                                                                                                          Page 76 of 118
-Town Park
900-400-New network core device setup
   900-420-Configure switch - access                                     3 Device/unit                $1,110
                                         -Town Park   Subtot Labor Hrs/Price:     6.00             $1,110
-Waste Water - Influent Building
900-400-New network core device setup
   900-420-Configure switch - access                                     1 Device/unit                  $370
         -Waste Water - Influent Building             Subtot Labor Hrs/Price:     2.00                $370
-Waste Water - Main Building
900-400-New network core device setup
   900-420-Configure switch - access                                     1 Device/unit                  $370

               -Waste Water - Main Building           Subtot Labor Hrs/Price:     2.00                $370
-Water Treatment - Main Building
900-400-New network core device setup
   900-420-Configure switch - access                                     2 Device/unit                  $740

        -Water Treatment - Main Building              Subtot Labor Hrs/Price:     4.00                $740

Total Labor: $8,695                                                    47.0 estimated hours




Page 4 of 5   Tuesday, July 8, 2025 1:35:45 PM                                  P_9113_Cameras Proposal Version 1




                                                                                                  Page 77 of 118
This project will be billed on actual time; labor figures provided in this proposal are an estimate. Proposal approvals via email or simply paying the
stated deposit amount will constitute the equivalent of a proposal signature and acceptance.

On or about the date the deposit is received, Mitchell and Company (MaC) will order all materials, described in this Proposal. All deliveries and
services performed at the Customer site will generally be during normal business hours (8:00am to 5:00pm) Monday through Friday, excluding
holidays, at the hourly rates set out in Labor section of this Proposal. MaC reserves the right to charge labor at 1 ½ times the rates set out in the
Labor section for work done after hours, on holidays and weekends. Reasonable incidental out-of-pocket expenses will be charged as incurred.
Travel and lodging expenses will be paid by Customer. Mitchell and Company will provide reasonable documentation of all expenses.

MaC will progress invoice labor semi-monthly for the duration of this project. Customer agrees to pay each invoice by its respective due date.
Applicable finance charges of 1.5% per month will accrue on balances past due. Any bank payments returned for insufficient funds or any other
reason are subject to a $50 fee.

MaC will act in a diligent manner in the installation and configuration of the hardware and software, described in this Proposal, to achieve
performance of the systems in accordance with the manufacturer and/or vendor specifications. MaC does not guarentee the compatibility of any
vendor hardware and software, but depends on respective vendors to ensure this compatibility. Customer understands and agrees that MaC is not
responsible for problems due to information that the manufacturers and/or vendors of hardware and software fail to supply, including but not limited
to the compatibility, configuration and performance of such hardware and/or software. Installation services, in addition to those estimated, may be
required to remedy any compatability issues and will be invoiced. Customer understands and agrees that failure in meeting schedule or failure in
the delivery of goods and services by other service providers, contractors, vendors or customer personnel directly or indirectly involved with this
project will not delay payment for services delivered by MaC. Over the course of time, additional MaC services may be required to install, configure
and maintain hardware and software in an operational condition. Customer is solely responsible for ensuring that it is in legal and regulatory
compliance with licensing and any other compliance laws, rules and regulations, and holds harmless MaC for any customer compliance
deficiencies.

Customer will provide access to relevant facilities, during normal business hours and as otherwise reasonably required, and provide access to
necessary and appropriate personnel to assist MaC in the sucessful and timely completion of this Project. Customer is solely responsible for
providing detailed technical requirements and specifications for integrating with other hardware, software or systems with the systems provided
under this proposal. Customer is responsible for describing in full details desired functionality for integration of other hardware, software or systems
with the systems provided under this proposal.

The Pricing described in this Proposal is good for 30 days of the Proposal date and includes the hardware and software set out in the Materials
section and does not necessarily include any or all applicable shipping, freight and taxes which the Customer is responsible for paying. Pricing is
based on the most recently available price quotations from applicable manufacturers and/or vendors and may vary at the time of ordering. If
individual item pricing varies by more than 10%, Customer will be notified and have the option of choosing a substitute product, if available.

Additional Work. This project does not include any written materials, documentation, diagrams, or any other documentation that is not expressly
included in this proposal. These items and any work not specifically described within this proposal is considered to be outside the project scope and
may be priced and performed separately. Any changes to the scope of this project may require a written change order which may take from 24-72
hours to process and may impact the completion date. During the course of this project, if we determine circumstances are such that substantially
greater work is required than estimated, we will discuss it with you and gain your approval before proceeding.

The Customer agrees that this Proposal is solely intended for the Customer. The customer acknowledges that all information contained in the
Proposal is considered confidential. Both the Customer and MaC agree not to release any confidential information in any shape, form, or method of
communicating.

Termination for Cause and Remedies. Customer may terminate this Proposal for Convenience any time upon written notice to MaC, in which case
Customer will pay MaC for all hardware, software, other miscellaneous items and labor to date and neither party will have any further obligations
under this Proposal.

Product Acceptance and Return. The Customer must report any claimed hardware and software delivery shortages within 3 business days of
hardware and software delivery. MaC will work with Customer to try to secure a refund for any products committed to, but not used for this project.
Customer agrees to pay for any such products and/or applicable restock or return fees in the event a return and refund is not possible.

Warranty. Manufacturer warranties for hardware and software, as such exist, are the sole and only warranties for proposed products. Customer
agrees to rely solely on such manufacturer warranties, as such exist. Consulting labor requested by customer to remedy manufacturer warranty
issues will be invoiced in accordance with our standard billing rates at such time work is conducted. MaC warranties implemention services to the
extent of the scope of this specific project, based on mutual written agreement at the conclusion of this project. Services provided thereafter will fall
under billable general support. MaC disclaims all other warranties, express or implied, inlcluding but not limited to, warranties of merchantability
and/or fitness of purpose.

Limitation of Liability. Under no circumstances will either party be liable for indirect, punitive, special, incidental and/or consequential damages, in
connection with or arising out of this Proposal (including loss of profit, data, or other economic advantage), however such claimed loss may arise.
Each party agrees to the waiver of all claims against the other party, and any claims will be limited to the dollar amount of the products and services
provided to Customer under this Agreement.




Page 5 of 5   Tuesday, July 8, 2025 1:35:45 PM                                                                      P_9113_Cameras Proposal Version 1




                                                                                                                                         Page 78 of 118
Quoted for:                                                                  Quoted by:
Town of Paonia                                                               cscott
Matt Laiminger                                                               cscott@mitchandco.com
214 Grand Avenue                                                             970-704-9003
Paonia, CO 81428                                                             Tuesday, July 8, 2025

Quote:            P_9113_Cameras

                       Materials:         $41,593            Date:       8/18/2025
 Current year recurring:                          $0
                                                       Accepted by:
              Estimated labor:              $8,695                  Stefen Wynn, Town Administrator & Treasurer
                Total Estimate:          $50,288

              Receipt of this deposit amount will initiate the start of this project.                         $41,593

 Goals
      1 Provide and install CAT6 cabling as neccessary at the following locations as well as labor to install
        verkada cameras.
 Assumptions/Notes
      1 Main Building-Provide and install CAT6 to specified camera locations.
      2 Influent building-Provide and install labor to install one camera.
      3 Main building- Provide and install labor to install outdoor cellular gateway and two cameras.
      4 Town Park - Provide and install labor to install three cameras and neccary componets/cabling.
      5 Town Hall - Provide and install labor to install two exterior cameras as well as two CAT6 cables to
        specified camera locations.
      6 Town hall interior - provide and install labor to install two cameras.

MATERIALS                                                                              Qty           Unit Price        Total

-Cable and Mounting Materials
Cables
  1000 Feet CAT6, terminations, other mounting equipment                                  1           $1,270          $1,270

                                                              Cable and Mounting Materials                       $1,270
-Town Hall - Exterior
IP Cameras
  CF81 Fisheye Series 30 days retention                                                   1           $1,999          $1,999
Peripherals
  Angle Mount Kit                                                                         2              $149           $298


Page 1 of 5    Tuesday, July 8, 2025 1:35:45 PM                                               P_9113_Cameras Proposal Version 1




                                                                                                                Page 79 of 118
Switch
  FortiSwitch 108F-FPOE                                                       1              $612           $612
Warranty, Maintenance and License
  Five Year Cloud Camera License, Capacity Increase                           2              $899         $1,798
  Forticare FS-108F-FPOE Premium Care - 3 Yr                                  1              $180           $180

                                                                     Town Hall - Exterior            $4,887
-Town Hall - Interior
IP Cameras
  CM42 Indoor Dome 30 days retention                                          2              $699         $1,398
Warranty, Maintenance and License
  Five Year Cloud Camera License, Capacity Increase                           2              $899         $1,798

                                                                     Town Hall - Interior            $3,196
-Town Park
IP Cameras
  CF81 Fisheye Series 30 days retention                                       1           $1,999          $1,999
  CH52 Outdoor Multi-sensor dome Camera, 1TB, 30 Days Max                     1           $3,599          $3,599
  CB52-E Outdoor Bullet Series 30 days retention                              1           $1,399          $1,399
Peripherals
  Square Camera Junction Box                                                  1               $90            $90
  Angle Mount Kit                                                             1              $149           $149
Rack and related
  Misc. Rack Equipment - Lockable NEMA enclosure for Pavillion and Gazebo     2              $150           $300
Switch
  FortiSwitch 108F-FPOE                                                       3              $612         $1,836
Warranty, Maintenance and License
  Five Year Cloud Camera License, Capacity Increase                           2             $899          $1,798
  5-Year CH52 Multisensor Camera License                                      1           $2,699          $2,699
  Forticare FS-108F-FPOE Premium Care - 3 Yr                                  3             $180            $540

                                                                              Town Park             $14,409
-Waste Water - Influent Building
IP Cameras
  CB52-E Outdoor Bullet Series 30 days retention                              1           $1,399          $1,399
Peripherals
  Square Camera Junction Box                                                  1               $90             $90
Switch
  FortiSwitch 108F-FPOE                                                       1              $612           $612
Warranty, Maintenance and License
  Five Year Cloud Camera License, Capacity Increase                           1              $899           $899
  Forticare FS-108F-FPOE Premium Care - 3 Yr                                  1              $180           $180
Wireless Access Point
  Building to Building Bridge                                                 1              $599           $599

                                                      Waste Water - Influent Building                $3,779



Page 2 of 5   Tuesday, July 8, 2025 1:35:45 PM                                    P_9113_Cameras Proposal Version 1




                                                                                                    Page 80 of 118
-Waste Water - Main Building
    IP Cameras
      CF81 Fisheye Series 30 days retention                                         1           $1,999          $1,999
    Peripherals
      Angle Mount Kit                                                               1              $149           $149
    Switch
      FortiSwitch 108F-FPOE                                                         1              $612           $612
    Warranty, Maintenance and License
      Five Year Cloud Camera License, Capacity Increase                             1              $899           $899
      Forticare FS-108F-FPOE Premium Care - 3 Yr                                    1              $180           $180

                                                              Waste Water - Main Building                  $3,839
-Water Treatment - Main Building
    IP Cameras
      GC31 Cellular Gateway, Outdoor                                                2           $1,299          $2,598
      CM42 Indoor Dome 30 days retention                                            1             $699            $699
      CF81 Fisheye Series 30 days retention                                         1           $1,999          $1,999
    Peripherals
      Angle Mount Kit                                                               1              $149           $149
    Switch
      FortiSwitch 108F-FPOE                                                         1              $612           $612
    Warranty, Maintenance and License
      Forticare FS-108F-FPOE Premium Care - 3 Yr                                    2              $180           $360
      Five Year Cloud Camera License, Capacity Increase                             2              $899         $1,798
      1-Year Cellular Gateway Data unlimited 1 video                                2              $999         $1,998

                                                          Water Treatment - Main Building                 $10,213

     Total Materials: $41,593


    LABOR                                                                                   Hours                 Total
-
    900-100-CIO - planning, design, strategy
       900-105-Design, analysis, proof of concept                             1 Hourly                          $185
    900-400-New network core device setup
       900-492-Equipment installation and mounting                           30 Hourly                        $5,550

                                                     -    Subtot Labor Hrs/Price:        31.00             $5,735
-Town Hall - Exterior
    900-400-New network core device setup
       900-420-Configure switch - access                                     1 Device/unit                      $370

                               -Town Hall - Exterior      Subtot Labor Hrs/Price:         2.00                $370




    Page 3 of 5   Tuesday, July 8, 2025 1:35:45 PM                                      P_9113_Cameras Proposal Version 1




                                                                                                          Page 81 of 118
-Town Park
900-400-New network core device setup
   900-420-Configure switch - access                                     3 Device/unit                $1,110
                                         -Town Park   Subtot Labor Hrs/Price:     6.00             $1,110
-Waste Water - Influent Building
900-400-New network core device setup
   900-420-Configure switch - access                                     1 Device/unit                  $370
         -Waste Water - Influent Building             Subtot Labor Hrs/Price:     2.00                $370
-Waste Water - Main Building
900-400-New network core device setup
   900-420-Configure switch - access                                     1 Device/unit                  $370

               -Waste Water - Main Building           Subtot Labor Hrs/Price:     2.00                $370
-Water Treatment - Main Building
900-400-New network core device setup
   900-420-Configure switch - access                                     2 Device/unit                  $740

        -Water Treatment - Main Building              Subtot Labor Hrs/Price:     4.00                $740

Total Labor: $8,695                                                    47.0 estimated hours




Page 4 of 5   Tuesday, July 8, 2025 1:35:45 PM                                  P_9113_Cameras Proposal Version 1




                                                                                                  Page 82 of 118
This project will be billed on actual time; labor figures provided in this proposal are an estimate. Proposal approvals via email or simply paying the
stated deposit amount will constitute the equivalent of a proposal signature and acceptance.

On or about the date the deposit is received, Mitchell and Company (MaC) will order all materials, described in this Proposal. All deliveries and
services performed at the Customer site will generally be during normal business hours (8:00am to 5:00pm) Monday through Friday, excluding
holidays, at the hourly rates set out in Labor section of this Proposal. MaC reserves the right to charge labor at 1 ½ times the rates set out in the
Labor section for work done after hours, on holidays and weekends. Reasonable incidental out-of-pocket expenses will be charged as incurred.
Travel and lodging expenses will be paid by Customer. Mitchell and Company will provide reasonable documentation of all expenses.

MaC will progress invoice labor semi-monthly for the duration of this project. Customer agrees to pay each invoice by its respective due date.
Applicable finance charges of 1.5% per month will accrue on balances past due. Any bank payments returned for insufficient funds or any other
reason are subject to a $50 fee.

MaC will act in a diligent manner in the installation and configuration of the hardware and software, described in this Proposal, to achieve
performance of the systems in accordance with the manufacturer and/or vendor specifications. MaC does not guarentee the compatibility of any
vendor hardware and software, but depends on respective vendors to ensure this compatibility. Customer understands and agrees that MaC is not
responsible for problems due to information that the manufacturers and/or vendors of hardware and software fail to supply, including but not limited
to the compatibility, configuration and performance of such hardware and/or software. Installation services, in addition to those estimated, may be
required to remedy any compatability issues and will be invoiced. Customer understands and agrees that failure in meeting schedule or failure in
the delivery of goods and services by other service providers, contractors, vendors or customer personnel directly or indirectly involved with this
project will not delay payment for services delivered by MaC. Over the course of time, additional MaC services may be required to install, configure
and maintain hardware and software in an operational condition. Customer is solely responsible for ensuring that it is in legal and regulatory
compliance with licensing and any other compliance laws, rules and regulations, and holds harmless MaC for any customer compliance
deficiencies.

Customer will provide access to relevant facilities, during normal business hours and as otherwise reasonably required, and provide access to
necessary and appropriate personnel to assist MaC in the sucessful and timely completion of this Project. Customer is solely responsible for
providing detailed technical requirements and specifications for integrating with other hardware, software or systems with the systems provided
under this proposal. Customer is responsible for describing in full details desired functionality for integration of other hardware, software or systems
with the systems provided under this proposal.

The Pricing described in this Proposal is good for 30 days of the Proposal date and includes the hardware and software set out in the Materials
section and does not necessarily include any or all applicable shipping, freight and taxes which the Customer is responsible for paying. Pricing is
based on the most recently available price quotations from applicable manufacturers and/or vendors and may vary at the time of ordering. If
individual item pricing varies by more than 10%, Customer will be notified and have the option of choosing a substitute product, if available.

Additional Work. This project does not include any written materials, documentation, diagrams, or any other documentation that is not expressly
included in this proposal. These items and any work not specifically described within this proposal is considered to be outside the project scope and
may be priced and performed separately. Any changes to the scope of this project may require a written change order which may take from 24-72
hours to process and may impact the completion date. During the course of this project, if we determine circumstances are such that substantially
greater work is required than estimated, we will discuss it with you and gain your approval before proceeding.

The Customer agrees that this Proposal is solely intended for the Customer. The customer acknowledges that all information contained in the
Proposal is considered confidential. Both the Customer and MaC agree not to release any confidential information in any shape, form, or method of
communicating.

Termination for Cause and Remedies. Customer may terminate this Proposal for Convenience any time upon written notice to MaC, in which case
Customer will pay MaC for all hardware, software, other miscellaneous items and labor to date and neither party will have any further obligations
under this Proposal.

Product Acceptance and Return. The Customer must report any claimed hardware and software delivery shortages within 3 business days of
hardware and software delivery. MaC will work with Customer to try to secure a refund for any products committed to, but not used for this project.
Customer agrees to pay for any such products and/or applicable restock or return fees in the event a return and refund is not possible.

Warranty. Manufacturer warranties for hardware and software, as such exist, are the sole and only warranties for proposed products. Customer
agrees to rely solely on such manufacturer warranties, as such exist. Consulting labor requested by customer to remedy manufacturer warranty
issues will be invoiced in accordance with our standard billing rates at such time work is conducted. MaC warranties implemention services to the
extent of the scope of this specific project, based on mutual written agreement at the conclusion of this project. Services provided thereafter will fall
under billable general support. MaC disclaims all other warranties, express or implied, inlcluding but not limited to, warranties of merchantability
and/or fitness of purpose.

Limitation of Liability. Under no circumstances will either party be liable for indirect, punitive, special, incidental and/or consequential damages, in
connection with or arising out of this Proposal (including loss of profit, data, or other economic advantage), however such claimed loss may arise.
Each party agrees to the waiver of all claims against the other party, and any claims will be limited to the dollar amount of the products and services
provided to Customer under this Agreement.




Page 5 of 5   Tuesday, July 8, 2025 1:35:45 PM                                                                      P_9113_Cameras Proposal Version 1




                                                                                                                                         Page 83 of 118
Page 84 of 118
Page 85 of 118
Page 86 of 118
Page 87 of 118
Page 88 of 118
                          TOWN OF PAONIA
                          BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING
                          STAFF REPORT




AGENDA ITEM:         Presentation of Draft Ordinance by Trustees Hunter and Majorado to establish
                     requirements and regulations governing the installation and operation of Town
                     security camera for the purpose of public discussion and potential edits.
SUBMITTED BY:        Trustees Hunter and Majorado


DATE:                April 14, 2026


BACKGROUND:          We recognize that video surveillance technology can serve legitimate public
                     safety and property protection purposes when deployed responsibly and
                     transparently. We also recognize the potential for abuse with regard to facial
                     recognition, license plate reading, and immigration enforcement, among other
                     concerns. We would like to formally address the absence of public policy in this
                     regard in a way that allows the intended use of security cameras at Town
                     facilities while strictly prohibiting uses that were not intended.




BUDGET:              Staff time



                The Draft Ordinance is NOT up for adoption at this time. Possible motions
RECOMMENDATION: include edits to the Draft and directing Staff for further edits / review.




ATTACHMENT:          Draft Ordinance




                                                                                              Page 89 of 118
                           TOWN OF PAONIA, COLORADO
                        DELTA COUNTY, STATE OF COLORADO

                                ORDINANCE NO. ___-2026

AN ORDINANCE OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE TOWN OF PAONIA, COLORADO,
 ESTABLISHING REQUIREMENTS AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE INSTALLATION
   AND OPERATION OF GOVERNMENT VIDEO SURVEILLANCE SYSTEMS ON TOWN-
    OWNED OR TOWN-CONTROLLED PROPERTY; REQUIRING THE ADOPTION AND
     MAINTENANCE OF A PUBLIC USE POLICY; ESTABLISHING RESTRICTIONS ON
FOOTAGE RETENTION, ACCESS, AND DISCLOSURE; PROVIDING TRANSPARENCY AND
    ACCOUNTABILITY MECHANISMS; AND PROVIDING PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION
                                THEREOF.


RECITALS
WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees of the Town of Paonia ("Board") recognizes that video
surveillance technology can serve legitimate public safety and property protection purposes when
deployed responsibly and transparently; and


WHEREAS, the Board also recognizes that government video surveillance of public spaces
implicates the privacy interests of residents, visitors, and employees, and that such interests
deserve legal protection; and


WHEREAS, the Board finds that the absence of a publicly available use policy, clear retention
limits, and meaningful oversight creates unacceptable risks of misuse and erodes public trust;
and


WHEREAS, the Federal Trade Commission has taken enforcement action against Verkada, Inc.
relating to data security and access control failures, underscoring the importance of robust
governance requirements for cloud-connected surveillance systems; and


WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees has authority under Article XX of the Colorado Constitution
and Title 31 of the Colorado Revised Statutes to regulate matters of local concern, including the
use of technology by Town government; and


WHEREAS, the Board finds it in the best interest of the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens
of Paonia to establish clear, enforceable standards governing government video surveillance;


NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE TOWN OF
PAONIA, COLORADO, AS FOLLOWS:



Section 1. Purpose and Intent




                                                                                            Page 90 of 118
The purpose of this Ordinance is to establish a comprehensive regulatory framework governing
the installation, operation, access, retention, and oversight of video surveillance systems operated
by or on behalf of the Town of Paonia. This Ordinance is intended to:

   •   Authorize the regulated use of video surveillance for legitimate public safety and
       property protection purposes;
   •   Protect the privacy and civil liberties of all persons in spaces subject to Town
       surveillance;
   •   Ensure transparency through mandatory public disclosure of surveillance policies and
       camera locations;
   •   Establish meaningful oversight, accountability, and enforcement mechanisms;
   •   Prevent mission creep, unauthorized access, and indiscriminate monitoring of residents.


Section 2. Definitions


As used in this Ordinance, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:

   •   "Authorized Purpose" means any of the purposes enumerated in Section 4 of this
       Ordinance for which the Town may operate a surveillance camera.
   •   "Designee" means any Town employee, officer, or contractor authorized by the Town
       Administrator to access surveillance footage.
   •   "Footage" means any video, audio, image, or metadata recorded, stored, or transmitted
       by a surveillance camera system, whether stored locally or in a cloud-based
       environment.
   •   "Privacy Impact Assessment" or "PIA" means a documented analysis evaluating the
       privacy risks of a proposed surveillance installation or material system change, as further
       defined in Section 6.
   •   "Sensitive Location" means any area where individuals have a heightened expectation of
       privacy, including but not limited to restrooms, locker rooms, changing areas, and interior
       spaces not regularly open to the public.
   •   "Surveillance Camera" means any fixed or mobile electronic device capable of capturing,
       recording, transmitting, or storing video images of persons or property in real time or on
       a continuous or periodic basis, including but not limited to IP cameras, network-
       connected cameras, and cloud-integrated camera systems.
   •   "Surveillance System" means one or more surveillance cameras operated together,
       including associated software platforms, storage infrastructure, and cloud service
       components.
   •   "Town" means the Town of Paonia, Colorado, including all its departments, officers,
       employees, and contractors acting in their official capacity.
   •   "Use Policy" means the Town of Paonia Surveillance Camera Use Policy adopted
       pursuant to Section 5 of this Ordinance.


Section 3. Scope and Applicability




                                                                                             Page 91 of 118
This Ordinance applies to all surveillance cameras and surveillance systems owned, leased,
operated, or controlled by the Town of Paonia, regardless of where such systems are located or
how they are funded. This Ordinance does not apply to:

   •   Body-worn cameras operated by law enforcement pursuant to a separate policy;
   •   Temporary recording equipment used in connection with a specific, documented
       investigation pursuant to a lawful warrant or court order;
   •   Cameras operated by private parties on private property not under Town control, except
       where the Town has contractual access to footage from such systems.


Section 4. Authorized Purposes


The Town may install and operate surveillance cameras only for the following Authorized
Purposes:

   •   Protection of Town-owned facilities, buildings, infrastructure, and equipment from
       vandalism, theft, or unauthorized access;
   •   Monitoring of Town-owned parking facilities, public parks, and recreational areas for
       public safety;
   •   Deterrence and documentation of criminal activity in areas that have experienced
       documented incidents;
   •   Protection of employees and members of the public in Town facilities;
   •   Traffic monitoring at public intersections or rights-of-way where authorized by separate
       resolution.

Surveillance cameras shall not be operated for any purpose not listed above.


Section 5. Mandatory Use Policy


(a) No surveillance camera or surveillance system subject to this Ordinance shall be operated
unless and until the Board of Trustees has adopted, by resolution, a written Surveillance Camera
Use Policy ("Use Policy") that complies with the requirements of this Section.


(b) The Use Policy shall address, at minimum, the following subjects:

   •   A complete inventory of all surveillance cameras operated by the Town, including their
       locations, fields of view, and Authorized Purpose;
   •   The categories of personnel authorized to access live or recorded footage, and under
       what circumstances;
   •   The maximum retention period for footage, which shall not exceed ninety (90) days for
       routine recordings absent an active investigation, legal hold, or insurance claim;




                                                                                          Page 92 of 118
   •   The circumstances under which footage may be shared with law enforcement, other
       governmental agencies, or third parties, and the applicable legal standards;
   •   Prohibitions on use of footage for facial recognition, license plate reader aggregation, or
       behavioral analytics absent explicit Board authorization by ordinance;
   •   A procedure for receiving and responding to public records requests for footage
       consistent with the Colorado Open Records Act (C.R.S. § 24-72-201 et seq.);
   •   A procedure for receiving and investigating complaints regarding alleged misuse of
       surveillance systems;
   •   Training requirements for all personnel with access to surveillance footage;
   •   Penalties for unauthorized access or misuse of footage.

(c) The Use Policy shall be:

   •   Posted in a prominent location on the Town's official website;
   •   Made available for public inspection at Town Hall during normal business hours;
   •   Reviewed and re-adopted or updated at least once every two (2) years.

(d) Any material amendment to the Use Policy shall require approval by the Board of Trustees at
a public meeting with no less than fourteen (14) days' advance public notice.


Section 6. Privacy Impact Assessment


(a) Prior to installing any new surveillance camera or materially expanding or relocating an
existing system, the Town Administrator or law enforcement designee shall prepare and submit
to the Board of Trustees a written Privacy Impact Assessment ("PIA").


(b) A PIA shall include:

   •   A description of the proposed installation, including location, field of view, and technical
       specifications;
   •   The Authorized Purpose(s) served by the proposed installation;
   •   An assessment of the privacy interests affected and the proportionality of surveillance to
       the asserted need;
   •   An analysis of less privacy-invasive alternatives considered;
   •   A description of physical and cybersecurity measures to protect footage from
       unauthorized access;
   •   The identity and contractual obligations of any third-party vendor providing hardware,
       software, or cloud storage services.

(c) The Board of Trustees shall approve the PIA at a public meeting before any new installation
may proceed. Approval may be conditioned on additional safeguards.




                                                                                            Page 93 of 118
(d) For surveillance cameras in operation as of the effective date of this Ordinance, the Town
Administrator or law enforcement designee shall prepare and submit a PIA to the Board within
ninety (90) days of adoption. During this period, existing cameras may continue interim operation
as permitted by Section 11.


Section 7. Location Restrictions


Surveillance cameras shall not be installed or operated in the following locations:

   •   Any Sensitive Location as defined in Section 2;
   •   Any location where the primary or predominant field of view captures the interior of a
       private residence;
   •   Any location where the camera would primarily capture lawful activity on private
       property;
   •   Any location not otherwise authorized by an approved PIA and the Use Policy.

Cameras shall be positioned to minimize incidental capture of areas beyond the scope of the
Authorized Purpose, and shall be physically adjusted or shielded as needed to comply with this
Section.

Section 8. Access, Security, and Data Protection


(a) Access to live or recorded footage shall be limited to the Town Administrator, authorized law
enforcement agencies acting pursuant to a lawful legal process, and Designees specifically
authorized in the Use Policy.


(b) All access to footage shall be logged in a written or electronic access log recording the date,
time, identity of the person accessing footage, the footage accessed, and the stated purpose. The
access log shall be treated as a public record subject to inspection upon request.


(c) The Town shall implement reasonable physical and cybersecurity safeguards to prevent
unauthorized access to footage, including password protection, access controls, and encryption
in transit and at rest for cloud-stored footage.


(d) In the event of a security breach or unauthorized access to footage, the Town Administrator
or law enforcement designee shall notify the Board of Trustees and the affected parties, to the
extent identifiable, within seventy-two (72) hours of discovery.


(e) Cloud storage and software vendors shall be contractually required to comply with the data
security and access requirements of this Ordinance and shall not use footage for any commercial
purpose, including advertising, analytics, or product development.


Section 9. Oversight and Reporting




                                                                                            Page 94 of 118
(a) The Town Administrator or law enforcement designee shall submit an annual written report
to the Board of Trustees at the first regular meeting of each calendar year, addressing:

   •   The current number and location of surveillance cameras in operation;
   •   A summary of all access log entries for the prior year, including the number of instances
       of footage access and the categories of purpose;
   •   Any complaints received regarding surveillance system use and their disposition;
   •   Any security incidents or unauthorized access events;
   •   Recommendations for system changes, policy updates, or decommissioning of cameras.

(b) The annual report shall be made publicly available on the Town's website.


(c) The Board of Trustees may, at any time, by majority vote, order an audit of any aspect of the
surveillance program, including inspection of the access log, vendor contracts, and security
configurations.


Section 10. Prohibited Uses


Notwithstanding any other provision of this Ordinance or the Use Policy, Town surveillance
cameras shall not be used for:

   •   Facial recognition or biometric identification, unless explicitly authorized by a separate
       ordinance adopted by the Board following a public hearing;
   •   License plate reader data aggregation or tracking of individual vehicle movements over
       time;
   •   Real-time or retrospective tracking of specific individuals based on race, ethnicity,
       religion, national origin, political affiliation, sexual orientation, or other protected
       characteristics;
   •   Sharing footage with federal immigration enforcement authorities without a valid court
       order;
   •   Any commercial purpose, including sale or licensing of footage to third parties.


Section 11. Interim Operation and Compliance Deadline for Existing Systems


All surveillance cameras and surveillance systems in operation as of the effective date of this
Ordinance shall be brought into full compliance with this Ordinance within one hundred eighty
(180) days of the effective date (the “Compliance Deadline”). During the interim period between
the effective date and the Compliance Deadline, existing cameras may continue to operate solely
for the Authorized Purposes enumerated in Section 4, subject to the access, security, prohibited
use, and public notice requirements of Sections 7 through 10. Continued interim operation does
not relieve the Town of its obligation to complete Privacy Impact Assessments and adopt a Use
Policy within the timeframes set forth in Sections 5 and 6. Any camera or system not brought into




                                                                                            Page 95 of 118
full compliance by the Compliance Deadline shall be suspended from operation by the Town until
compliance is achieved, or decommissioned if compliance cannot be achieved within an
additional thirty (30) days.


Section 12. Enforcement and Penalties


(a) Any Town officer or employee who knowingly accesses, uses, shares, or retains footage in
violation of this Ordinance shall be subject to disciplinary action up to and including termination,
in addition to any penalties provided by applicable law.


(b) Any person who believes the Town has violated this Ordinance may file a written complaint
with the Town Clerk. The Town Administrator or law enforcement designee shall investigate and
respond in writing within thirty (30) days.


(c) Violations of this Ordinance by a vendor or contractor may result in termination of the
applicable contract.


Section 13. Severability


If any provision of this Ordinance or its application to any person or circumstance is held invalid
or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of the Ordinance and its
application to other persons and circumstances shall not be affected.


Section 14. Effective Date


This Ordinance shall take effect thirty (30) days following final passage and publication as
required by C.R.S. § 31-16-103.




INTRODUCED, READ, APPROVED ON FIRST READING, AND ORDERED PUBLISHED this
_____ day of _____________, 20___.


READ, FINALLY PASSED, AND ADOPTED on second reading this _____ day of
_____________, 20___.



TOWN OF PAONIA, COLORADO


___________________________________




                                                                                             Page 96 of 118
Mayor


ATTEST:


___________________________________
Town Clerk


APPROVED AS TO FORM:


___________________________________
Town Attorney




                               CERTIFICATION OF PUBLICATION
I, the undersigned Town Clerk of the Town of Paonia, Colorado, hereby certify that the foregoing
Ordinance was duly published as required by law on _____________, 20___.


___________________________________
Town Clerk




                                                                                         Page 97 of 118
                 Scope of Work and Contract Price Estimate
 Owner             Paonia Assembly Hall                Job #    43026                   Date 5/6/26
 Address           700 4th St                          City     Paonia      State CO    Zip   81428
 Phone Number      (970) 527-4101                               Email Paonia@townofpaonia.com
 Email             Naomi@MesaRestorations.com                   Estimator Naomi Soto


       After performing an Inspection Mesa Restoration, LLC, has established the following Scope of
Work and Contract Price Estimate to address the Remediation Services to be provided by Mesa
Restoration, LLC, on the above-described property:



                                            SCOPE OF WORK

                MAIN HALL

       Build containment

       Remove wood paneling on wall

       Demo all drywall on west wall

       Demo affected ceiling

       HEPA vacuum

       Scrub structure

       Apply anti-microbial

       Prep for clearances



Day 1: Building the containment to establish negative pressure. Begin removal of wood paneling. Site
cleanup. Day 2: Complete the removal of wood paneling. Begin removing the affected ceiling. Site
cleanup. Day 3: Complete ceiling demo. Begin removal of all the drywall on the west wall. Site cleanup.
Day 4: Complete the removal of drywall on west wall. Begin initial HEPA vacuum of the exposed
structure is performed to clear loose particulate. Site cleanup. Day 5: Complete the initial HEPA
vacuuming. Begin scrubbing the exposed structure to remove impacted material. Site cleanup Day 6:
Complete scrubbing the exposed structure. Begin second pass of HEPA vacuuming to clear any loosened
particulates. Site cleanup. Day 7: Apply anti-microbial to all exposed surfaces. Prep containment for air
quality (mold) clearances. Day 8: Final air quality (mold) clearances to be performed by a third-party
hygienist.


                                           820 Kimball Ave
                                       Grand Junction, CO 81501
                                      www.MesaRestorations.com
                                        Office: (970) 424-0684                                    Page 98 of 118
                                                   Contract Price Estimate

                                                          $17,861.67

 Upon Owner’s execution and agreement to this Scope of Work and Contract Price Estimate, Mesa Restoration,
 LLC, hereby agrees to furnish materials and labor, completed in accordance with the above-provided Scope of
 Work and Contract Price Estimate. All work is to be completed in a workmanlike manner, according to industry
 standards. Any alteration or deviation from the Scope of Work detailed herein will be executed only upon written
 change orders and will become an extra charge in addition to the Contract Price Estimate. The Contract Price
 Estimate is subject to change as detailed in the Emergency Work Authorization Agreement and the Terms &
 Conditions detailed herein.

 Owner’s Signature: ________________________________________ Date:_______________________

 Owner’s Name: ___________________________________________ Date:_______________________


 Mesa Restoration Signature:  __________________________________________
 Date:_______________________


                                                   TERMS & CONDITIONS
Scope of Work & Additional Work: Mesa Restoration agrees to perform the Scope of Work referenced herein, and Owner agrees
to issue payment for the work referenced herein; Owner agrees that any supplements or additions to work may be accomplished
by a written change order. Owner also agrees that construction and remediation work of this nature regularly features situations
where unknown or unforeseen conditions are uncovered by Mesa Restoration as the original Scope of Work is completed. If Mesa
Restoration uncovers unknown or unforeseen conditions in the building structure, Owner agrees to execute a written change
order to address the additional work and additional costs required to address the unknown or unforeseen condition.
Assignment of Insurance Benefits: To the extent applicable, Owner hereby assigns any and all insurance rights, benefits,
proceeds, and any causes of action under any applicable insurance policies to Mesa Restoration, LLC, for services rendered or to
be rendered by Mesa Restoration, LLC. By executing this document, Owner intend for all rights, benefits, and proceeds for
services rendered by Mesa Restoration, LLC to be assigned solely and exclusively to Mesa Restoration, LLC. In this regard, Owner
waives any privacy rights relating to Owner’s insurance policies and authorizes Owner’s insurers to communicate directly with
Mesa Restoration, LLC. Owner makes this assignment in consideration for Mesa Restoration’s agreement to perform labor,
services, supply materials, and perform its obligations under this contract. Owner hereby unequivocally directs any applicable
insurance carrier(s) to release any and all information requested by Mesa Restoration, LLC, its representative, and/or its attorney
for the purpose of obtaining actual benefits to be paid by my insurance carrier(s) for services rendered or to be rendered.
Scope of Work & Contract Pricing: After completion of the final Scope of Work, an Xactimate invoice will be written to detail the
scope of work and final pricing for the work performed. The Xactimate invoice will supersede the estimate provided herein, which
will be based on the final work performed. A copy of the same is available upon request. If owner reduces the overall scope of
work, profit and overhead originally calculated will still apply to the overall price.
Work Quality: All work involving restoration and / or repairs is for the damaged work only and for like kind & quality craftsmanship
and does not cover unaffected areas and does not cover restoring existing deficiencies. Estimate presumes original walls, floors
and framing are plumb, square, and straight. Construction does not result in “Perfect Finishes” such as is found in manufacturing
under a controlled environment. Our work will conform to existing qualities and will be governed by references published by the
National Association of Home Builders, “Residential Construction Performance Guidelines”. All construction debris will be
removed from project and areas left in a broom clean and / or shop vac quality cleaned condition.
Contract Time: Time is of the essence to this agreement and Mesa Restoration will diligently pursue substantial completion of
the work but will not be held liable for delays due to deliveries, weather, owner or insurance carrier, scheduling of trade issues
or any other conditions beyond Mesa Restoration’s control. Owner agrees to hold Mesa Restoration harmless for any additional

                                                    820 Kimball Ave
                                                Grand Junction, CO 81501
                                               www.MesaRestorations.com
                                                 Office: (970) 424-0684                                                    Page 99 of 118
delays to work. Owner further agrees not to cause delays to project for any reason and to provide clear and continuous access to
the work site from 7:00am to 5:30pm. Mesa Restoration may at their option, place a “LOCK BOX” at the facilities. Substantial
completion is the date when the property can be occupied for its intended use, not when the work is 100% satisfactory. Customer
agrees to sign Certificate of Satisfaction / Certificate of Complete (“COC”) upon project completion.
Invoice & Payment Method: If the insurance company does not pay Mesa Restoration directly, Owner agrees to make payment
to Mesa Restoration for the Work, whether or not such Work is covered by insurance. Mesa Restoration may invoice work for
parts or work complete. Owner shall pay Mesa Restoration the amount of each invoice no later than ten (10) days following
Owner’s receipt of the invoice. Interest shall accrue on payments not received within such time at the lessor of (i) the maximum
lawful interest rate or (ii) one and one-half percent (1 ½) per month and may be compounded monthly. Any remaining balance
of the Contract Price after the above payments are made shall be paid no later than ten (10) days following completion of the
Work. At the completion of Final Walk Through, owner must pay Mesa Restoration for all sums less correction items on list. Items
addressed after Final Walk Through will be placed on a warranty list and will not be subject to subtractions from final payments
subject to limited warranty below.
Limited Warranty: Conditioned upon payment in full of all amounts due Mesa Restoration, Mesa Restoration warrants that the
Work will be free from defects for a period of one (1) year from the first day the Work is occupied or is ready to be occupied
(whichever occurs first) by Owner and shall assign to Owner all applicable warranties of manufacturers, supplies or others. Mesa
Restoration warranty is limited to repair or replacement, at Mesa Restoration’s exclusive option, of the defective work and
specifically excludes any equipment or materials covered by manufacturer’s, supplier’s or other warranties, and also specifically
excludes incidental or consequential damages. This warranty specifically excludes cracking, etc. of any concrete, drywall, plaster,
caulking, sealant, tile, or any other product subject to movement of any kind. The warranty also excludes any loss caused by or
consisting of any mold or microbial growth whether caused by Mesa Restoration or their subcontractors or suppliers. Owner
further agrees to hold Mesa Restoration harmless from all claims for personal, professional, or property damage related to mold,
microbial growth, fungi, mildew. Except as provided herein, there are no other expressed or implied warranties of any kind, and
Owner waives any such warranty.
Certain Owner Obligations: Owner shall make customer selections within Mesa Restoration’s established deadlines or pay
additional overhead fees to Mesa Restoration and agrees to utilize the design center of contractor’s choice to do so. If owner fails
to make timely selection, Mesa Restoration can make selections on behalf of owner with standard items. Owner agrees to allow
Mesa Restoration to communicate with insurance or mortgage company in order to facilitate the processing and payment of the
claim. Owner agrees to quickly facilitate the signing of any proof of loss and / or mortgage company inspections and/or
endorsements to claim payments. Owner waives any right of recovery or subrogation against Mesa Restoration to the extent of
Owner’s insurance coverage. Owner shall provide and maintain Property, Building, Personal Property, Builders Risk, “All Risk” and
Premises Liability Insurance Covering the Work, including all materials and supplies on site but not yet installed.
Hazardous or Other Conditions: Mesa Restoration may halt the work upon any findings of hazardous substances or unsafe
conditions. Mesa Restoration will notify owner upon the discovery of any such items. Owner must notify Mesa Restoration of any
known hazardous items at the site including; asbestos, chemicals, lead, or other and owner shall indemnify and hold harmless
Mesa Restoration from and against any and all claims arising from or related to the Conditions, and Mesa Restoration shall be
entitled to payment from Owner for all costs, expense and damages, including reasonable attorney’s fees and expenses, it incurs
as a result of the Conditions. If conditions cause delay to project for more than one (1) week, Mesa Restoration may terminate
this agreement. While Mesa Restoration performs work related to and including the removal of mold and mold spores, owner
agrees to hold Mesa Restoration harmless from any and all claims for physical, personal, and/or mental damages related to or
consisting of mold or microbial growth of any sort or manner.
Default: If Owner defaults in any of its obligations hereunder, Mesa Restoration may, at its option, in addition to other remedies
provided in this Contract or pursuant to applicable law or principles of equity, pursue one or more of the following remedies;
suspend some or all of the Work until all defaults have been cured, upon three (3) days written notice to Owner, terminate some
or all of Mesa Restoration’s obligations under this Contract, and/or recover all amounts due under this Contract plus all expenses
and reasonable attorney’s fees and expenses incurred by Mesa Restoration as a result of Owner’s breach or Mesa Restoration’s
enforcement of this Contract. In the event this Contract or Mesa Restoration’s obligations are terminated by Mesa Restoration
pursuant to the terms of this Contract, Mesa Restoration shall be paid for all Work performed through the date of termination in
the amount that will compensate Mesa Restoration for all costs incurred, plus thirty percent of those costs. Mesa Restoration
retains the right to file a Mechanics Lien for services rendered and hereby notifies owner that Mesa Restoration will file said liens
to protect Mesa Restoration’s interest in the subject property. In such event, owner shall pay all interest charges and filing fees
for the lein.



                                                     820 Kimball Ave
                                                 Grand Junction, CO 81501
                                                www.MesaRestorations.com
                                                  Office: (970) 424-0684                                                  Page 100 of 118
Dispute Resolution: Any Controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this Contract or work performed pursuant thereto shall
be resolved in the District Court of Denver County, Colorado. OWNER HEREBY WAIVES THE RIGHT TO A JURY TRIAL, AND
CONSENTS TO A TRIAL TO THE COURT. The prevailing party, in any action stemming from Owner’s failure to issue payment to
Mesa Restoration for the Work performed, shall be entitled to reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs incurred in such litigation.
Owner and Mesa Restoration further waive their right to any claims for consequential or punitive damages against each other.
Entire Agreement: This Contract, including the Attachments hereto or supplement documents including the Emergency Work
Authorization Agreement and Xactimate Invoice, will comprise the complete agreement of the parties and no representations or
agreements have been made by either party expect as expressly stated in this Contract. All modifications to this Contract shall be
in writing and signed by both parties hereto. If any provision of this Contract becomes or is determined to be illegal or
unenforceable for any reason, the remainder of the Contract shall remain in full force and effect.




                                                    820 Kimball Ave
                                                Grand Junction, CO 81501
                                               www.MesaRestorations.com
                                                 Office: (970) 424-0684                                                Page 101 of 118
1



                 Paul Davis Restoration of Western Colorado
                 TAX ID: 26-0647127



           Insured:    Town of Paonia
          Property:    700 4th St
                       Paonia, CO 81428


        Estimator:     Panfil, Patryk                                            Business:    (970) 390-0097


    Claim Number:                            Policy Number:                          Type of Loss:

     Date of Loss:                                       Date Received:
    Date Inspected:                                       Date Entered:   4/29/2026 1:24 PM

         Price List:   COGJ8X_APR26
                       Restoration/Service/Remodel
         Estimate:     700_4TH_ST




                                                                                                          Page 102 of 118
2



                         Paul Davis Restoration of Western Colorado
                         TAX ID: 26-0647127




                                                                  700_4TH_ST


                                            Mold Remediation

     DESCRIPTION                                            QTY    REMOVE      REPLACE      TAX           TOTAL

     1. Content Manipulation charge - per              1.00 HR         0.00       55.33     0.00            55.33
     hour
     2. Containment Barrier/Airlock/Decon. 1,275.00 SF                 0.00        1.27    21.80          1,641.05
     Chamber
     Entire length of wall
     3. Peel & seal zipper - heavy duty                2.00 EA         0.00       18.03     2.39            38.45
     4. Containment Barrier - tension post            50.00 DA         0.00        3.35     0.00           167.50
     (per day)
     10 Poles x 5 days
     5. Containment Barrier - air filter               2.00 EA         0.00       16.01     1.66            33.68
     6. Floor protection - cardboard and             750.00 SF         0.59        0.00    19.95           462.45
     tape
     floor protection inside containment
     7. Water Extraction & Remediation                 3.00 HR         0.00       81.77     0.00           245.31
     Technician - per hour
     Labor to detach ceiling lights
     8. Neg. air fan/Air scrub.-XLrg (per 24           8.00 DA         0.00      141.50     0.00          1,132.00
     hr period)-No monit.
     9. Ducting - lay-flat - Large                    30.00 LF         0.00        0.50     1.43            16.43
     10. Tear out wet drywall, cleanup, bag -        730.00 SF         1.97        0.00     9.71          1,447.81
     Cat 3
     11. Tear out wet paneling, bag for              666.00 SF         1.24        0.00     5.06           830.90
     disposal - Cat 3
     Black wood paneling and 1 section of ceiling paneling
     12. Tear out and bag wet insulation -          1,396.00 SF        1.51        0.00     6.63          2,114.59
     Category 3 water
     Entire exterior wall and 4' x 74' of ceiling
     13. HEPA Vacuuming exposed                     1,100.00 SF        0.00        1.87     0.00          2,057.00
     framing w/ sheathing - Walls
     14. HEPA Vacuuming exposed                      296.00 SF         0.00        2.69     0.00           796.24
     framing w/ sheathing - Ceiling
     15. Clean stud wall                            1,100.00 SF        0.00        1.15     2.09          1,267.09
     16. Clean floor or roof joist system            296.00 SF         0.00        1.43     0.56           423.84
     17. Apply plant-based anti-microbial           1,396.00 SF        0.00        0.39     7.96           552.40
     agent to the surface area
     18. Apply mold/mildew stain remover            1,396.00 SF        0.00        0.80    33.16          1,149.96
     to the surface area

     Totals: Mold Remediation                                                             112.40         14,432.03


    700_4TH_ST                                                                            4/29/2026         Page: 2



                                                                                                   Page 103 of 118
3



                        Paul Davis Restoration of Western Colorado
                        TAX ID: 26-0647127




                                           Generals

     DESCRIPTION                                         QTY    REMOVE     REPLACE      TAX           TOTAL

     19. Dumpster load - Approx. 40 yards,            1.00 EA     915.00       0.00     0.00           915.00
     7-8 tons of debris
     20. Add for personal protective              18.00 EA          0.00      23.63    20.78           446.12
     equipment (hazardous cleanup)
     21. Respirator - Full face - multi-          12.00 DA          0.00       7.61     0.00            91.32
     purpose resp. (per day)
     22. Respirator cartridge - HEPA &                4.00 EA       0.00      36.59    13.90           160.26
     vapor & gas (per pair)
     23. Add for HEPA filter (for                     1.00 EA       0.00      95.67     7.36           103.03
     canister/backpack vacuums)
     24. Add for HEPA filter (for negative            0.50 EA       0.00     214.28     9.32           116.46
     air exhaust fan)
     25. Scaffold - per section (per week)            3.00 WK       0.00      65.36     0.00           196.08
     26. Scaffolding Setup & Take down -              6.00 HR       0.00      55.33     0.00           331.98
     per hour

     Totals: Generals                                                                  51.36          2,360.25

     Line Item Totals: 700_4TH_ST                                                     163.76         16,792.28




    700_4TH_ST                                                                        4/29/2026         Page: 3



                                                                                               Page 104 of 118
4



                     Paul Davis Restoration of Western Colorado
                     TAX ID: 26-0647127




                                                      Summary for Dwelling
     Line Item Total                                                                      16,628.52
     Material Sales Tax                                                                      163.76

     Replacement Cost Value                                                              $16,792.28
     Net Claim                                                                           $16,792.28




                                          Panfil, Patryk




    700_4TH_ST                                                               4/29/2026        Page: 4



                                                                                     Page 105 of 118
5



                  Paul Davis Restoration of Western Colorado
                  TAX ID: 26-0647127




                                                       Recap of Taxes




                            Material Sales Tax (9.5%) Manuf. Home Tax (9.5%) Storage Rental Tax (9.5%)   Local Food Tax (6.6%)

     Line Items                              163.76                     0.00                     0.00                     0.00

     Total                                   163.76                     0.00                     0.00                     0.00




    700_4TH_ST                                                                                      4/29/2026            Page: 5



                                                                                                             Page 106 of 118
6



                    Paul Davis Restoration of Western Colorado
                    TAX ID: 26-0647127




                                                 Recap by Room

    Estimate: 700_4TH_ST
           Mold Remediation                                      14,319.63        86.11%
           Generals                                               2,308.89        13.89%

    Subtotal of Areas                                            16,628.52       100.00%


    Total                                                        16,628.52       100.00%




    700_4TH_ST                                                    4/29/2026          Page: 6



                                                                             Page 107 of 118
7



                    Paul Davis Restoration of Western Colorado
                    TAX ID: 26-0647127



                                                Recap by Category


     Items                                                            Total            %
     CLEANING                                                        1,688.28     10.05%
     CONTENT MANIPULATION                                               55.33      0.33%
     GENERAL DEMOLITION                                              5,729.40     34.12%
     SCAFFOLDING                                                       528.06      3.14%
     WATER EXTRACTION & REMEDIATION                                  8,627.45     51.38%
     Subtotal                                                       16,628.52     99.02%
     Material Sales Tax                                                163.76      0.98%

     Total                                                          16,792.28     100.00%




    700_4TH_ST                                                      4/29/2026        Page: 7



                                                                            Page 108 of 118
CHANGE ORDER NO.4
April 24, 2026

                                                                                    Sent Via Email Only
Stefen Wynn
City of Paonia
214 Grand Avenue
Paonia, CO 81428


Re:     2,000,000-Gallon GST Coating Inspection Services
        Paonia, Colorado


Dear Mr. Wynn,


Original Agreement:

TOTAL HOURLY, NOT TO EXCEED                                                              $97,860.00


Change Order No.1:
Additional 3 weeks of AMPP coating inspection billed as time-and-materials basis including mobilization.
Daily Rate $1,568.00 per day.

TOTAL CHANGE ORDER No. 1                                                                 $32,935.00

Change Order No.2:
Additional 1 week of AMPP coating inspection billed as time-and-materials basis including mobilization.
Daily Rate $1,568.00 per day.

TOTAL CHANGE ORDER No.2                                                                 $32,928.00

Change Order No.3:
Additional 1 week of AMPP coating inspection billed as time-and-materials basis including mobilization
thru 4/13/2026. Daily Rate $1,568.00 per day.

TOTAL CHANGE ORDER No.3                                                                 $26,700.00

Change Order No.4:
Mobilization and Final Inspection.

TOTAL CHANGE Order No.4                                                                 $5,145.00

PROJECT TOTAL HOURLY NOT TO EXCEED                                                      $195,568.00

             Copyright 2026 by KLM Engineering, Inc.                                          Page 1 of 2


                                                                                                Page 109 of 118
AGREEMENT
If the City of Paonia finds this Change Order acceptable, please sign and return it by email. By
signing and returning this page only, you agree to terms of the entire agreement documents
submitted.

This Agreement, between The City of Paonia and KLM Engineering, Inc. of Woodbury,
Minnesota is accepted by:

 CITY OF PAONIA                                        KLM ENGINEERING, INC.
 214 Grand Avenue                                      1976 Wooddale Drive, Suite 4
 Paonia, CO 81428                                      Woodbury, MN 55125



 Signature                                             Signature

                                                       Dewey Prinzing
 Name                                                  Name

                                                       Vice President of Business Development
 Title                                                 Title

                                                       April 24, 2026
 Date                                                  Date

We look forward to working with you.

Sincerely,

KLM ENGINEERING, INC.
Dewey Prinzing
Vice President of Business Development
1976 Wooddale Drive, Suite 4
Woodbury, MN 55125
Cell: 651-434-4321
Email: dprinzing@klmengineering.com




             Copyright 2026 by KLM Engineering, Inc.                                       Page 2 of 2


                                                                                            Page 110 of 118
CHANGE ORDER NO.5
April 30, 2026

                                                                                    Sent Via Email Only
Stefen Wynn
City of Paonia
214 Grand Avenue
Paonia, CO 81428


Re:     2,000,000-Gallon GST Coating Inspection Services
        Paonia, Colorado


Dear Mr. Wynn,


Original Agreement:

TOTAL HOURLY, NOT TO EXCEED                                                              $97,860.00


Change Order No.1:
Additional 3 weeks of AMPP coating inspection billed as time-and-materials basis including mobilization.
Daily Rate $1,568.00 per day.

TOTAL CHANGE ORDER No. 1                                                                $32,935.00

Change Order No.2:
Additional 1 week of AMPP coating inspection billed as time-and-materials basis including mobilization.
Daily Rate $1,568.00 per day.

TOTAL CHANGE ORDER No.2                                                                 $32,928.00

Change Order No.3:
Additional 1 week of AMPP coating inspection billed as time-and-materials basis including mobilization
thru 4/13/2026. Daily Rate $1,568.00 per day.

TOTAL CHANGE ORDER No.3                                                                 $26,700.00

Change Order No.4:
Mobilization and Final Inspection.

TOTAL CHANGE Order No.4                                                                 $5,145.00




             Copyright 2026 by KLM Engineering, Inc.                                          Page 1 of 2


                                                                                                Page 111 of 118
Change Order No.5:
Mobilization and Final Inspection

TOTAL CHANGE Order No.5                                                               $5,145.00

PROJECT TOTAL HOURLY NOT TO EXCEED                                                    $200,713.00

AGREEMENT
If the City of Paonia finds this Change Order acceptable, please sign and return it by email. By
signing and returning this page only, you agree to terms of the entire agreement documents
submitted.

This Agreement, between The City of Paonia and KLM Engineering, Inc. of Woodbury,
Minnesota is accepted by:

 CITY OF PAONIA                                        KLM ENGINEERING, INC.
 214 Grand Avenue                                      1976 Wooddale Drive, Suite 4
 Paonia, CO 81428                                      Woodbury, MN 55125



 Signature                                             Signature

                                                       Dewey Prinzing
 Name                                                  Name

                                                       Vice President of Business Development
 Title                                                 Title

                                                       April 30, 2026
 Date                                                  Date

We look forward to working with you.

Sincerely,

KLM ENGINEERING, INC.
Dewey Prinzing
Vice President of Business Development
1976 Wooddale Drive, Suite 4
Woodbury, MN 55125
Cell: 651-434-4321
Email: dprinzing@klmengineering.com




             Copyright 2026 by KLM Engineering, Inc.                                       Page 2 of 2


                                                                                            Page 112 of 118
                           Ad Hoc STR Committee Meeting
                                    Date: May 5, 2026
                                    Executive Summary


The Short-Term Rental (STR) Committee convened to continue discussions regarding
recommendations for future STR regulations within the Town of Paonia. It was my
(Scott Brown’s) first meeting in the role of facilitator, and Trustee Fisher’s first meeting
as well. I took the opportunity to make an opening statement to support everyone being
on the same page.
I stressed the importance of respectful dialogue, constructive participation, and
maintaining focus on the topic of the moment. It was acknowledged that while STR
regulation has been a contentious issue, the town is moving forward with regulation and
the committee’s task is to determine reasonable and workable approaches. The
committee’s advisory role was also emphasized.
Topic Discussion Summaries
1. Committee Process and Public Engagement
The committee reviewed expectations for meeting conduct, public engagement, and
committee process. Discussion included:
      Maintaining respectful and concise public participation,
      Avoiding off-topic exchanges,




DR 
   
   
       Using post-meeting surveys for written public input,
       The importance of transparency and accessibility of meeting materials,
       The need for advance packets and projected materials during meetings.

Future meetings should organize supporting documents and have key items projected to
allow committee members and the public more effective participation.
2. Clarification of Committee Scope
The seven topics assigned by the Board of Trustees for review and recommendation were
highlighted. It was noted that previous community work, including the “Common
Ground” proposal, addressed STR regulations more comprehensively than the narrower
direction currently assigned by the Board.
It was clarified that:
   


                                                 F
       The Board of Trustees has directed the committee to focus on the identified topics;




                                                 May 5, 2026 Ad Hoc STR Committee Meeting Summary    1


                                                                                                Page 113 of 118
                          Ad Hoc STR Committee Meeting
                                   Date: May 5, 2026
                                   Executive Summary
    Existing materials, including the repealed ordinance and Common Ground
     recommendations, will be used as reference materials, as appropriate;
    The committee’s responsibility is to recommend workable approaches rather than
     debate whether STRs should exist.

3. Prioritization of Discussion Topics
The committee agreed to begin with:
      Definitions related to single-room rentals, and
      Licensing approaches for those rentals.

Members felt these topics were manageable starting points.
The town administrator explained that any future STR recommendations must remain
consistent with existing zoning definitions and municipal code structure.
Committee members also discussed the importance of having future meeting packets
include:
      Relevant municipal code sections,
      Copies of the repealed ordinance,
      Copies of the Common Ground proposal,




DR    Other supporting reference materials as needed.

4. Definition of a Single-Room Short-Term Rental
The committee reviewed prior ordinance language defining a “single bedroom short-term
rental.” Discussion focused on:
   
   
   
   
       Whether the phrase “primary residence” should remain in the definition,
       Clarifying the meaning of “shared facilities,”
       Distinguishing room rentals from separate dwelling units,
       Determining whether separate bathrooms or basement spaces still qualify as room
       rentals,




                                                F
                                                May 5, 2026 Ad Hoc STR Committee Meeting Summary    2


                                                                                               Page 114 of 118
                          Ad Hoc STR Committee Meeting
                                   Date: May 5, 2026
                                   Executive Summary
      Clarifying that separate kitchens generally create separate dwelling units under
       zoning standards.

The Committee considered other existing information including the Common Ground
proposal, and existing municipal code. Public comment was included in the discussion,
along with input from Town staff. It was agreed that the existing language found in the
repealed ordinance was a good starting point. Several committee members supported
simplifying the language and making the definition flexible enough to reflect real-world
room-rental situations.


The committee proposed modifying language requiring that: “all other facilities are
shared” to wording such as: “facilities may be shared.”
Members acknowledged the definition may require future refinement as additional STR
topics are addressed.
5. Licensing and Registration Approaches
The committee reviewed licensing concepts contained in:
      The repealed STR ordinance, and
      The Common Ground proposal.




DR
Discussion generally favored a simplified registration system rather than a heavily
layered permitting process.
The Common Ground proposal included:
   
   
   
   
   
   
       Town-issued registration requirements,
       Multi-year registration periods,
       Complaint-driven enforcement,
       Cost-recovery fee structures,
       Basic application information,
       Self-certification of safety compliance.

Committee members and the public emphasized the importance of:


   
   
   
       Keeping regulations simple,
       Minimizing administrative burden,
       Maintaining affordability for operators,   F
                                                  May 5, 2026 Ad Hoc STR Committee Meeting Summary    3


                                                                                                 Page 115 of 118
                            Ad Hoc STR Committee Meeting
                                   Date: May 5, 2026
                                   Executive Summary
      Ensuring regulations are manageable for town staff.

Several participants expressed concern that the repealed ordinance was overly
complicated and burdensome, particularly for residents renting rooms within owner-
occupied homes.
6. Registration Terms, Renewal Cycles, and Administrative Considerations
The committee discussed possible registration renewal cycles, including:
      Annual renewals,
      Two-year cycles,
      Three-year cycles.

Discussion included:
      Potential benefits of reducing staff workload through longer renewal periods,
      Concerns about tracking multi-year licenses,
      Establishing common renewal dates,
      Using prorated fees for mid-cycle applicants.

Public comment was also included in this discussion, along with input from Town staff. It




DR
was agreed that the language in the Common Ground proposal for the most part outlined
a workable approach. The recommended three-year registration period had a lot of
support. The concept of complaint-driven enforcement was repeatedly referenced as a
way to reduce administrative complexity.


The committee also discussed whether STR registrations should be transferable upon sale
of a property. Members discussed the possibility of a transfer process requiring new
owners to complete compliance review while preserving existing reservations. It was
pointed out that transferability could happen along the lines of the process used for liquor
licenses. It was agreed to park transferability for further discussion in the future.




7. Future Meeting Topics


                                                F
                                                May 5, 2026 Ad Hoc STR Committee Meeting Summary    4


                                                                                               Page 116 of 118
                          Ad Hoc STR Committee Meeting
                                    Date: May 5, 2026
                                    Executive Summary
The Committee established the agenda for the next meeting (5.19.26), agreeing to review
the results of this meeting and then consider items 6 and 4 from the original list of items
provided by the Board of Trustees:

6) Discuss the time frame included in the definition for primary residence

4) Owner occupied vs. non-owner-occupied dwelling units as STRs

The Committee outlined the materials needed in preparation: relevant sections from the
repealed ordinance, the Common Ground proposal, and municipal code. Committee
members also requested that future packets include written summaries of prior
discussions and working recommendations.


Public Comment Summary
Public comments and audience participation primarily focused on simplifying the
proposed short-term rental framework, clarifying definitions, and reducing administrative
burden for residents renting rooms within their homes.
Several commenters expressed concern regarding the proposed definition of a “single
bedroom short-term rental,” particularly the phrase requiring that “all other facilities are
shared.” Speakers noted that many room-rental arrangements include partially separate




DR
living areas, such as basement bedrooms and bathrooms, while still functioning as part of
a shared residence. Commenters recommended simplifying or clarifying the language to
better reflect real-world housing arrangements.
Multiple participants supported a streamlined registration or licensing process rather than
a highly complex permitting structure. Commenters generally favored:
   
   
   
   
   
       Simple registration requirements,
       Lower fees,
       Longer renewal cycles,
       Complaint-driven enforcement, and
       Minimal administrative burden on both residents and town staff.




                                                F
Several speakers discussed the practicality of multi-year registration periods, noting that
longer licensing cycles could reduce workload for both STR operators and town
administration if implemented with a consistent renewal schedule.



                                                 May 5, 2026 Ad Hoc STR Committee Meeting Summary    5


                                                                                                Page 117 of 118
                          Ad Hoc STR Committee Meeting
                                   Date: May 5, 2026
                                   Executive Summary
Questions were raised regarding transferability of STR registrations when a property is
sold. Commenters suggested the town consider a transfer or continuation process to
avoid disrupting existing reservations while still requiring new owners to complete
compliance review and approval.
Additional public comments addressed the broader context of affordable housing. Some
speakers questioned whether owner-occupied room rentals meaningfully affect affordable
housing availability and suggested that small-scale room rentals differ significantly from
whole-house STR operations. Commenters also encouraged the committee to use clear,
easy-to-understand language and to keep regulations practical, locally tailored, and
manageable for the community.
Next Meeting
Tuesday, May 19, 2026 at 5:00 PM.
Respectfully Submitted,


__________________________
Scott Brown, facilitator
This document based on an AI-generated meeting summary, first edited by Deputy Clerk
Santiago




DR
                                               F
                                               May 5, 2026 Ad Hoc STR Committee Meeting Summary    6


                                                                                              Page 118 of 118
