 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 We have one more minute and we're waiting on a fourth trustee who is going to be joined by Zoom, and we're here is going to join by Zoom. And if we don't have or we don't have a forum.
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 I'm going to hold on before I start the meeting.
 Yes, that's great, thank you.
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 You have three minutes to speak, including, if you would like to ask Greg's non-question, you're welcome to do that too. Then maybe after all that, I will bring it back to the trustees to talk about.
 Is the asking questions part of it?
 Yes. But you get an answer, but yes, it is part of the three minutes. So with that, if everyone is okay with that going that way, because I feel like we have Greg here, and it's really nice to meet you.
 And have you just tell us something about yourself, and then the trustees will chime in after you're finished? If you're comfortable with that approach.
 Uh-oh, you're muted.
 We can't hear you.
 Sorry about that.
 Okay, my name is Greg Sund. I've been involved in local government since 1983.
 I first became involved in local government by running for office in Deadwood, South Dakota.
 And that really engaged me in local government. And eventually I went back to school and got my master's in public administration and started full time in this field at the beginning of 1992.
 Since that time I've served cities and a county in South Dakota, North Dakota, Kansas, and starting in 2017 Colorado.
 I served as the city administrator, excuse me, city manager in Trinidad, Colorado, where I live right now from 2017 through the most of 2019.
 I have been serving in interim positions since 2020. Those include Walsenberg, Telluride, Mount Crested Butte, George and Georgetown.
 I have had the luck of being involved in some really interesting projects throughout my career. I think the one that I will always highlight and feel very honored to have been involved in.
 Was the purchase of what's called the crazy French ranch south of Trinidad.
 It eventually became the 42nd state park in this little Fisher's Peak State Park.
 It was the purchase of a 19,200 acre ranch.
 And even though the city was involved in the process, we were mostly the cheerleaders and getting the people who are local who are interested in the project, getting them and keeping them involved and up to communication of what we were doing.
 Most of the project was negotiated by the Trust for Public Land and the nature conservancy. Those people were very involved in the project and negotiated with the owner and the purchase of the property.
 And we also worked with GOCO and with Gamefish and Parks because they were all GOCO and Gamefish and Parks provided all of the financing for that project.
 I use Fisher's Peak State Park on a regular basis. I have an active mountain biker, and enjoy riding up the amount of the mountain I can get up with some of it is too steep to ride, but it's interesting to be able to do that and have it so close to my place of residence.
 Are there any questions for me.
 Yeah, I'm going to open it up to the trustees to ask some questions.
 Everybody and just go ahead and go ahead.
 You want to go back to the question.
 Thank you very much for being here. We really appreciate you taking the time to read our.
 Read about our needs and step up like this. Thank you.
 What is it that you like about being an interim manager or town administrator.
 And it seems like that's kind of the direction you shifted towards.
 I decided after Trinidad that I just wasn't in the mood to move out anymore. I just wanted to stay in one location. And the best way to do that for me is to serve an interim positions that have a start to stop date, and then I can return home.
 This is a field where if you actively pursue positions, you move all the time. And I've done that numerous times in my career, and I just didn't feel like doing it anymore, which is why I got into the interim positions.
 And when you come in as an interim, you know, it's a very tumultuous time to begin with, and any municipality or government.
 How do you feel about your role in helping staff and board and mayors, and most importantly, the public, the people or community transition from a town administrator to an interim to a new town administrator.
 I think that is a big part of the role is to prepare people for incoming of another administrator in the near future, but also to provide continuity in the management of the community.
 Because when you go without someone for a while, then you lose that continuity and the new person really has to start at square one and start building it all over again.
 And sometimes that takes an entirely different view. There's people that don't know the history and start out in a direction they think is appropriate to maybe it's not one that the town wants to go in, and they have to learn that along the way rather than having
 the continuity that already exists. Also, when there's projects that are on the table that continuity is really important in keeping those moving forward, finishing them when possible, and not just leaving everything on the plate for the new administrator that's hired.
 So, continuing to say our grant projects, our water projects, our infrastructure, and making sure that we are still meeting all of our grant requirements, and keeping up on that that is something that you are comfortable going and have experience to it.
 Yes. Now, I'll say that these grant programs change all the time so the ones that you have, I'm going to have to come up with speed on but I have managed grants in the past and it's the process that tends to be fairly involved, especially on federal grants.
 But it's not something that's the owners can't do, you just have to keep that up and not let any time lapse and fail to do the reporting that's necessary.
 Thank you.
 What is the smallest town. I mean, it's a penalty that you have managed.
 Probably Mount Crested Butte. It was about 900 population. Okay, so you do have experience with a smaller population.
 It is very different indeed. My first, my first full time position was in Platte, South Dakota. It was a town of 1300 people.
 And at the time, South Dakota really didn't have very many administrators or managers, it was a fairly rare form of government in 92.
 And so I served as the city finance officer, which also had a lot of the responsibilities of the administrator.
 Thank you.
 Hi, this is Walter check speaking. I, to read touched on what I think is one of our major concern, and that is the grant funded.
 Infrastructure projects were in the middle of right now. And I'm all, you kind of answered the question, but I sort of like to hear a little more about your comfort level of just taking over the grant project.
 A grant project that is already started, and in the process of, as a matter of fact, we just sent out some RFP for the next phase of a major water project, as well as some other infrastructure projects that we have going on.
 And like you said, those are the things we don't want to let lapse, and they need continually monitoring and reporting on.
 So I was just curious.
 I have the advantage of being able to start the position fairly soon and be able to spend a little time with your current administrator to get background on what the projects are, how they're functioning, how the reporting is going, how the project itself is advancing,
 or if there's any problems in getting that done at this time, because the more issues that you can resolve and move forward from the easier it is to finish a project.
 Okay, I'll just. So, first of all, thank you very much for being here on such short notice, and some of the things that we said we talked about before we were able to get this meeting set up is, is again the projects we have.
 One of the things that really intrigued me about the resume is that you were a public works director, I don't quite remember where, but you, you sounds like quite a bit of experience with public works, and we need to hire a new public works director so I'm very happy to potentially have your input into that.
 Oh, well, and I'm in the office a lot more so than a trustee would be, and I see how important it is to have a person in the office that has not only information on the day to day activities and the things that come up that are expected and unexpected but also
 the overall view that the administrator has to do is the chief operating officer actually, and how important that person is, and for the staff's well being and the staff's continuity and their confidence that they have someone they can turn to when they're when things come up in their
 community, that they're not used to because I see that all the time, but I'm in the office just just being nearest mayor, so I'm quite impressed with your background on that and appreciative that you can be here full time.
 We had a previous administrator was very helpful but she was part time and at that time we didn't have any projects like this going on we now have.
 Well, we just finished one project which was we had to rely on our water tank and I believe we are soon to be getting water from that realign to money gallon tank, but we have the next project that trusty check was referring to is we're replacing 10,000 feet of transmission line from our 2 million gallon tank to most of our users.
 That's the RFP that's out and I don't know when that closes but I know it's soon that the proposal should be coming in soon for that I'm looking out at public works, but your timing could be that you would also be available to renew those, because this is going to be so important
 and a good contractor doing this very it's going to be very visible and very intensive work just outside of town and lots of people drive this way.
 It's going to be a huge project lots of equipment, a lot of safety issues that really needs a good management oversight from 30,000 foot level so in my discussions with you and your resume it seems like you have that kind of experience.
 Do you agree with me or am I, am I embellishing you too much.
 I had the opportunity to serve as a public works director for Hayes Kansas for two years, but in the administrative and manager roles I've had, I've had to work with public works directors throughout my career.
 And whether that was with people who had the title of public works director or whether it was split between two or more people, it's still work that has to be done. I have been involved in water issues and interest in water issues for as long as I can
 remember at one time I had a class two or I think that's class C licensed equivalent in Colorado for wastewater treatment. I operate a wastewater treatment for the home state gold mine and lead soft Dakota.
 So even though that was an industrial operation, it is you had to learn all of the basics of wastewater treatment in order to get the classifications necessary to perform the position.
 When I was in Dickinson, North Dakota, we had very active involvement in upgrading our water and sewer infrastructure on a regular basis, and we're doing a good job of getting that done. I think I'm a big believer that when you can you should dedicate as much money as possible
 to ongoing upgrading and maintenance of those facilities because they're underground, it's easy to forget them. And a lot of cities do it. And when those kind of lines go bad, they go bad all at once a lot of times.
 I also can affirm believer that when a line breaks rather than just fixing that break, you should do what you can to replace as much line as possible around it, because if there's a break in one part of a piece of pipe, chances are there's other pieces of that pipe that are all slow in danger.
 And you might end up having multiple breaks rather than one.
 If you try to do it as little work as possible.
 Yep, we have met. There's been a lot of postponement to getting this work done. And now.
 And again, as everybody in this room knows, in Colorado, it's an enterprise. So we've been very fortunate through our previous current and administrator of getting the grants and loans that we have. Otherwise, the water use with their bills would be exorbitant to try to pay for all this that has to be done.
 Because this water pipeline is being replaced for us all the time. So we're really excited to get that all done. The only and the other thing I wanted to mention was I appreciate that in your contract.
 You recognize that in order to get housing in Peyonia in this the peak of summer season that you would pay for half of that cost of your housing and utilities.
 And oftentimes the town pays the full cost and we spoke to him yesterday saying, we just don't know what that house has been all up like and that could be more than we really could handle.
 So thank you very much for offering to take half of that. And if the board chooses to go further with your contract. That's the first thing we'll start on is finding a place for you to live.
 Because right now you are available starting June, I think it's Monday, June 15, which is wonderful because we would have a several week overlap with for you to be here while Stefan is here to learn from him and then be able to meet all the staff before Stefan is gone.
 So, thank you for that. So that's all I have and I'll pass it over to Trustee Ostrander.
 Thank you so much for being here and being available. I'm told that you were the only one available. So glad that we had somebody with good experience and small talents. Thanks for your willingness to be present.
 Give a couple of questions if so I went to highlight. Can you talk a little bit about your statement that you believe in promoting citizen involvement in their government and what that means to you and what it looks like from a structural or process perspective.
 I know everyone says they have an open door policy I've heard that more times than I can count but some people say it and don't do it. I very much prefer having people involved in their community.
 And I take active roles in communities in order to break the walls down where people know who I am. And if they have particularly customer based issues, which is what the administrator works with most of the time.
 I look at those as being very different the board deals with what I would call ownership issues.
 And the administrator deals with the customer side of the city. So it's when people come into.
 Town Hall and they have questions about their services things that they need to have accomplished different things like that. That's a role that the staff has to take on and be willing to try to resolve as quickly as possible.
 Because I think it's important to have a level of customer service with the local citizens that resolves their issues and helps them move forward because it can be very frustrating dealing with government and not knowing all the rules and all of the issues that you have to address in order to resolve issues.
 And it's really a good thing for staff and the administrator to break those walls down and make sure that the residents can accomplish their goals and meet their needs.
 Thank you so much. Can you, I know as a city administrator, you have to be very good at playing multiple games at once, or spending multiple place keeping them spending at the same time. Can you talk to us about a situation that you may have had experience?
 You don't have to name names of towns or anything but can you talk about a situation where you had to triage a number of unexpected or burning issues that came up.
 Well, they all tend to stand on their own because of the separation of operations within government. So if, if there's water issues, those tend to stand alone street issues tend to stand alone.
 But there's also times when they cross over each other. One of the things that is not common in Colorado but was common when I was in North Dakota was that all of the water and sewer lines there have to be buried more than seven feet deep just to avoid frost.
 And that makes projects far more expensive because you're digging deeper. Also, we had a road one year where we had a project planned on it where we were going to mill and overlay the road the next year.
 So during the winter, which was a particularly bad winter, the road literally fell apart. And we had to change the project and reconstruct the entire street, rather than just doing a mill and overlay project, and that those kind of things you have to be prepared for because they happen all the time.
 And that's something that you can plan for, whether it does things to city and town infrastructure that you have to be able to work around and resolve.
 And if you get bogged down with the details on those things and can't make decisions, you can't move forward. And I think that's a big key to the administrators role is to be able to see clearly the direction that you need to take.
 Taking advice from engineers and from the board and the staff and making decisions and moving forward with it.
 Going back to the other one I forgot to ask my follow up question we have a couple of citizen committees or we've had them in the past.
 How have you dealt with those types of committees before or have you worked with local governments that have citizen committee committees that come up to deal with special issues.
 Are these standing committees or are these dealing with specific projects.
 Like planning and zoning board.
 No, I'm speaking more about our STR and hot. We had a water committee at one point. We have an STR short term rental committee currently.
 So these are more like ad hoc issues specific.
 Okay. I actually like those kind of committees because you can get people to participate a little more often when they can see an end point to a commitment.
 That's the problem with standing committees is people have to serve for a fairly lengthy period of time and it takes a lot more dedication on people's parts trying to plan how they make that work within the other demands of their life.
 But if it's a short term commitment, it's one that they can see an end of.
 And you can tell them within reasonable within a reasonable timeframe how much how long the project will last and when what they're being asked to do how quickly they're being asked to make decisions and recommendations.
 And when likely they will be able to walk away from that and possibly get involved in a different project in the future.
 But shorter term ad hoc committees.
 I think work especially better in today's world where people are so busy that if they can see a short term commitment, they might be more willing to provide input and participation.
 Thank you so much. A last question I saw in your resume, you talk a little bit about having experience and HR and sort of that, that side of things.
 Can you talk to me a little bit about what that means for you in terms of bringing your HR experience to an administrator's role.
 I've developed HR manuals for two different organizations in my career, and it takes a lot of time. It takes a lot of staff involvement.
 It takes a lot of education with the board to make sure that they know that you're following a lot of laws that can impact a lot of the decisions that are made because it's all employment law.
 It's ways to make decisions and treat staff properly.
 I was involved in starting a local affiliate for what's called the Society for Human Resource Management.
 The acronym for it is SHRM if you've ever heard of that.
 And it was a way to improve communication between myself and human resource directors.
 Throughout the community and the area that I was living in, because the more input you have from other professionals, the better you better able you are to make decisions and to make sure that what you're doing is keeping up with the changes in law, which, if you're, if you think you're just standing alone all the time, you might miss things.
 You're far better off taking collaborative approaches and involving other people and making sure that you're making the correct decisions.
 Okay, just one more question and I'm determined. We can turn it to Trustee Foster.
 I just was curious, and I'm, I don't really have a bias here, but during, I think you were in tell your eye during a lot of discussions around the ski industry and the town.
 And housing, I'm, I'm curious how you navigated those from a city and administrators approach when you have a large outsized actor economically in the community and the issue of housing.
 Like how, how do you navigate that just on a professional level.
 I think that issue was more one that was coming on when I was with the town to tell you right, I was there for the first three and a half or so months of 22.
 Okay, and that was not quite as big an issue at that point. The biggest issue at that time was rental housing and the Airbnb.
 That type of housing and what that was doing to the ability of the town to provide housing for other people, because it was taking housing out of the mix a lot of times.
 And so they were very, the board was very concerned with that. And it's something that took up a lot of time.
 And did it get resolved, but before you left.
 I don't know if you can totally resolve it. They put in a lot of regulation and controls. And I think those are always important to look at is how other towns have resolved these issues or address them.
 Because, just like human resource policy, you're not standing alone. Every town is dealing with these things, especially ones that have tourist type industries in them.
 Mount Crested Butte has a sizable issue with that, because it has a lot of people that come and go into town at various times of the year, and they're very actively involved in those organizations.
 Thank you. Thank you. And because you brought up HR, I just want to let you know that we have hired a contracting HR firm and they are working on a revised personnel handbook for us that should be coming out pretty soon.
 So I'm going to turn it over to Trustee Foster, but I wanted to do this too. After Trustee Foster, I thought it'd be good if our clerk and deputy clerk have an opportunity to visit with you as well.
 And I'll turn it back to the public. So, Trustee Foster, go ahead.
 I thank you to my other Trustees who've covered all the topics that I was going to ask about you guys have done a very thorough job. So thank you.
 Okay, well, just to get more chances to pipe up I think as we get come back to discuss.
 If you're a better would you like to just introduce yourself or maybe ask some questions too, since you, he knows you only by voice.
 I agree. Sam better here.
 No, because as soon as you asked me that my mind went completely prepared.
 A lot of what I've heard is there. I mean, I was on the staff level, you know, we got a pretty collaborative team and you like a collaborative approach.
 That, that made me smile, but look forward to seeing what's going to happen.
 But you.
 I am deputy clerk Ruben Santiago.
 I've been here for about three years.
 I've come from the private sector where I spent 35 years of region technology field.
 And this is a grant for community department from saying.
 Thanks.
 With that. So I said you had three minutes, but I want to modify that because what I'd like to do is I'm sure everybody in the room here would like to come up and perhaps, you know, say something and then ask some questions.
 So what I'd like to do is just keep.
 Have three questions. If you could come up, speak, and then maybe limit your questions to three that will just let Greg answer, you know, as he can, and we won't have a clock ticking will three be enough to get everybody's questions in.
 We have six people in the audience.
 And I don't think we have anyone on zoom that might want to speak. I don't see any other hands. So it's because it's just the six of you does. I mean, we'll do your three questions going to cover it.
 What's that we will see. Okay. Well, I'm going to control this a little bit. So we, you know, so we don't know a person that monopolizes at all, but I want.
 I don't want the clock to be taking while Greg is giving his thoughtful answer. So we'll just play it by ear. So, who would like to come up and introduce themselves first.
 Anybody come on. It's only six of you. Anybody come on up that wants to.
 No, come on. Nobody has a question.
 On it.
 Do I sign in?
 I think yeah, if you would, just because this is a regular meeting.
 I don't know if we have any minutes, but we definitely want to record. Thanks.
 So again, thanks for being available. I know it's going to be hard. I serve them for the trustees for about six years and return from that April 2025.
 So I've been enjoying my life.
 The question I have is what's the difference between doing things right and doing the right thing. Thanks.
 To me that that means that sometimes you have to make decisions that are tough.
 And I think that's something you have to do on a regular basis in administrative role.
 They both are related doing things right and doing making the right decisions are very much tied to each other.
 I don't think you can just totally separate them and not try to do the best job possible for every issue that comes up in every project that you're managing.
 You need to be thinking of those types of situations on a regular basis.
 It sounds good to be able to say that there's a difference between them, but there really isn't. They are very tied to each other.
 And again, you don't have to come up and ask a question if you just want to come up and make a comment. There's no distinction here.
 I just knew if people had questions that three minutes may not be a fair exchange in question and answer. So, come on up. I could tell you what to.
 I just didn't want to jump in the sort of piece.
 Pete McCarthy.
 First, I'm going to read a statement and then I do have some questions.
 I look carefully into the person being considered today. I'll tell you what I found and then asked a few questions.
 Great sons last permanent job was city manager of Trinidad.
 In September of 2019, he resigned to avoid being fired.
 Every position since then has been a short term term walls and bird and tell your item that Mount press dispute then Georgetown and walls and bird he resigned in the middle of a council meeting the same night that the council voted against keeping him.
 In Trinidad, one of his own department heads gave the council a written complaint.
 It states that Mr. Sutton told the town's finance director and I quote, this is not a democracy.
 And this term isn't unusual. Across small Colorado towns is the norm, fortunately, or is Council.
 Ray said about that it hooked to them a merry ground chief executive officers.
 Our own Delta County independent ones called came here the fifth administrator in six years.
 I have real questions about this candidate and about hiring this way at all.
 But here's what concerns me most about the speed of it.
 I understand that the seat has to be filled Mr. when leaves about six weeks and to the credit the board.
 Did tell us last week that he is leaving, but they have known since May 8.
 That was a three that was three beats to begin an open careful search for the most important position this town feels instead here we are in a special meeting with a single candidate in front of us.
 We have made no field, no real public process for a decision this important that is simply too fast.
 And even now we have not been told planning why Mr is actually leaving.
 So I will ask the obvious questions. Why the rushing.
 Why is there only one name.
 Ken Gray, this is to you. I would would love for you to explain the situation that Trinidad wall walls and bird.
 And this is the people of the only a deserve a real say who leads this town.
 So I am announcing today that I'm finally petitioned to recall mayor pitch Smith.
 And I'm not going to simply criticize from the microphone.
 Recall has to name someone willing to step in and serve so I'm putting my name over.
 I am ready to answer to the people of the area in the open. Thank you.
 No other questions for Mr. son, son.
 Excuse me. I'm just asking you people. Oh, I'm sorry. No, you've got any other questions just besides those two things. Thank you.
 So Greg, are you, you like to speak about Walsenberg and Trinidad.
 I think there was, I don't know exactly what led to the end of my tenure with Trinidad. They never really said anything to me.
 The statement I made to the finance director was based completely on a direction from the board.
 I think the night before or two nights before where they said I needed take responsibility for all of the decisions that came before the board that I couldn't.
 I shouldn't be saying that the department heads agreed with or were counseled on things that were coming before the board because that is generally my approach.
 I told the board that is the way I really like to do things, but they clearly told me they did not see that they said that the manager has to take the responsibility and make the decisions and not make it a democracy of the department heads.
 And that, and I told them I could get a little tougher on the department heads, but it's not, but that isn't the approach I really prefer to take.
 Also, there were a lot of people in the community who supported the project to acquire the Fisher speak property.
 There were some people who clearly said what kind of idiot would that would want to buy a mountain.
 There were differences opinion within the community.
 Okay, and then that was how about Walsenberg.
 The requirement that the made mayor put forward changed differing from state law in regard to the budget.
 I told me two months after I had submitted the preliminary budget, according to the schedule for the state that he wanted a complete document delivered to him on that day, not a preliminary budget.
 And I said, I could easily do that. That's not a problem because I've worked in other states that have different budget calendars and I've produced budgets way earlier in the year.
 But I can't make a decision after the date that it is due.
 That that's something that has to be communicated and it's something that I couldn't change at that point.
 It was something that the board was working through.
 And also the board was making changes to the budget on a regular basis at that point.
 So there wasn't a final document that could be produced.
 It was a document influx to a point.
 And I can produce a final document, but it's you can't produce 15 or 20 final documents. They take a lot of time.
 Okay, thank you. Who else would like to come up and speak and or ask a question. Thank you.
 Well, no, say your name and sign up please marry that person in town resident. First off, I would like to remind the board that this is not smart.
 We are a republic, which means that we, the people vote for people who will make decisions for us. So we are not a democracy.
 We're talking second of all I'd like to thank Mr. Sund for bringing up the issue of continuity, because that is so very, very important, especially to this town where we are.
 The other thing I would like to ask you is, how do you deal with extreme polarization.
 I just noticed we have a small cadre of people who believe that they are the only ones who can quickly run the cap. How do you deal with such kind of issues.
 Some of the issues that were stated. I really think fall in the lap of the board more than the administrator because the administrator.
 In X the policies that are set by the board. When people are dealing with issues with the board or what a policy should be.
 I can take that input and communicate it, but it really setting policy really is a board decision not an administrator's decision.
 The administrator does not have power that a lot of people think it does. It is a position that reports directly to the board. And if it's not doing that that person's not doing their job, because the board is the final decision maker and the center of policy or in the entire community.
 Okay, thank you. Who else would like to come up and speak to us. Come on up. You'll say your name and sign the sheet, please.
 So, let me just go broder.
 I said, Mr. side sounds like her reasonable man.
 I like what he's saying that the board hearing, hearing correctly, the board is the leader and he's the administrator.
 And I think this is one of the problems that we've had in our recent history where we've had an administrator who assists on being leader, his expresses.
 And so, thankfully, there's a change in the board as well. I think it's going to be much more receptive to the.
 What I would agree is the problem, you point, or is the leader and the administrator, it demonstrates policies enacted by the board. And if I've heard that directly.
 A final kind.
 And as you can see, there's, there's differences and opinions of this community.
 And let's, are we going to realize that, but we'll just be the right guy to manage.
 Thank you.
 Who else.
 Okay.
 I'm up sharing.
 I understand mom in town.
 Mr.
 Wilson.
 Just a cursory view of things happening in balsenberg and where I know county in general, and under your administration, different places.
 Can you speak up just a little bit.
 It means that there's a lot of life, several times you were an administrator. And when the issues are wrong, you were no longer left.
 Being an administrator can explain some of that experience from your previous.
 Serving in in the administrator's position, you have to be aware with where of and work in the political environment in terms of knowing that a lot of the things you do are impacted by the political environment of the community.
 And there's times when it's easiest to let the administrator, the manager go, rather than addressing some of the issues that are addressed that are faced by the community.
 And I recognize that that's something that I have gotten used to throughout my career. And there's times when you deal with very controversial issues, and you work through them. There's times when it's easiest to just part ways, because there's a difference of opinion of what the direction of the community is.
 And it happens probably more often than not when you get newly elected people who want to make some changes, and the administrator is seeing whether it's true or not being tied to the old board.
 I've seen that happen and experience that on numerous occasions, probably the most controversial situation I dealt with with the board was in Dickinson North Dakota. I was hired there in 1996.
 And then I think three months, the mayor was changed out and format and then nine months later, the town recalled the remaining four members of the board over a community recreation center project.
 So over a period of four years.
 I worked for 14 different people on a five member board.
 I worked for that and worked for the community for another eight years after that. So I, I worked for Dickinson for 12 and a half years.
 So it doesn't always happen where things are more short term in commitment.
 But some communities have more of a history of changing over managers on a regular basis. When I applied to Trinidad, I thought it got over a lot of those issues because there had been a fairly constant replacement of managers throughout its history.
 I found that a lot of those issues still had remained and they were just things that you could not work through.
 Even though I think we did some really good projects when I was in Trinidad, including the established into Fisher's Peak State Park.
 I am a follower of a question. Sorry. I'm going to let Christina and I'm sorry.
 You know, I have any questions. Okay, thanks.
 Well, on that, I turn it back to the trustees. If you have more questions, please go right ahead and
 entertain the discussion of the contract to possess.
 I don't know because everything's in public.
 Any discussion we have, he can hear because it's all recorded.
 Sure. So then I guess then I would have some further questions.
 I would ask a question for the town.
 We did get an email from the clerk, which I found super helpful explaining a lot of the background. So thank you so much for that.
 I just want to make sure that the public understands the process for the search and what happened and what the timeline like looks like and what candidates are out there.
 For me, it was really surprising just to get one candidate.
 I just am saying, usually in the job search, you have multiple candidates. Also, I'm not sure if we've checked references.
 And so I would just want to ask like normal things that we would in any sort of job search, which is are there.
 Can you talk about the process of solicitation that we directed you to do last time and what candidates were put forward and then what the process of review and reference check has been so far.
 So, we met with the CCMA senior advisor like the board directed us to do the rate and he gave us Greg Suntz number.
 So we called and we talked with Greg to see your lives willingness, but his availability was stuff like that and then set up the sweetie.
 But let me add, I checked the bill rate there. There are no other interim candidates.
 And there are six people on this advisory board and they are all constantly talking about who's coming and going, a minimum. And what's the answer for it again.
 It's called the senior, the senior advisor to the city county managers, managers association.
 Okay. Thank you.
 So I check back with him to say, are there any other candidates, anybody available now? He said no.
 So this is not where there's a lot of people available. Right now there are six that I know of town manager openings in the state of Colorado.
 And this is not a kind of position that a lot of people are just sitting around doing this.
 But so it's just asking about the process together.
 That's all I want. Thank you.
 Yeah, but it's it's not unusual to only have a single candidate for this kind of a job.
 That's, that's my point. And like I, I, I, to tell you guys, maybe, you know, this was, this is how we have our program.
 Let's leave lose my students same process was getting in touch with CCMA.
 That's one of the things that they do is when talents get it because we were without a clerk, we without administrator, we, we were kind of this kind of a slime.
 So, and this, this is a lot like what our last one looked like.
 Now, when we go to look for a full time administrator, then it's going to be the whole the RFP goes out, you know, we get an executive search firm and then they'll go through a whole nine yards.
 As for references, we can absolutely check.
 The one thing that I did do is I actually know one of the clerks and one of his former talents.
 Pretty well, so I did call her and asked for about it.
 Of course, the staff were going to be working with this person every day.
 We want to know.
 And she gave me a glowy recommendation. So, but we're, I'm really happy to call any other references that you want, whatever you guys need to do, just, I mean, that the way you would do a normal professional restaurant for any government hired.
 That's all requesting.
 We've done that in the past.
 Trying to remember.
 Which one it was for.
 Yeah, where it was, you know, if, you know, these had to come along and.
 How much I'm trying to remember which process it was.
 Was it an attorney? Oh, maybe at the town attorney, where it was, you know, they had us call everything and then we brought those recommendations back on the council made a full decision after those references.
 Great. And my intention is just to clarify the process that's been undertaken and will be undertaken in this search and with the Canada. So thank you for doing that.
 I will comment on where to go from here.
 So at this point, he is available on June 15, but not about a contract.
 And there is a draft contract in front of you.
 Are there any comments that questions on the contract.
 And by the way, there are two highlighted spots on page 15 and those are actually notes.
 On my version, I have a yellow spot and if you click on it. The one was how how brave derived 7,250 an hour and the other one was how many miles to just to turn the desk.
 I'm going to explain.
 Good. How would you have 24 hours to comment on the contract.
 You know, no.
 I mean, it all depends on what the trustees decide today.
 So I would appreciate your chance to look at it.
 It's not there, but it's up to the trustees.
 It's in the town.
 I know it's all right. It's okay.
 13.
 Trust to your standard.
 Yes, thank you.
 15.
 15.
 15.
 16.
 That's the.
 The information wasn't in the back.
 You mean it's in, I have it right in front of me today.
 It wasn't.
 I mean, it was posted yesterday.
 The packet was posted yesterday. I'm going to leave it at that. I have it.
 And I got it the same way.
 Can we confirm.
 Yeah, if you go to the site where.
 Post it in action.
 It's.
 Last Thursday at two on nine p.m.
 yesterday yesterday.
 I guess that would be last Thursday.
 So do you, what, what is your wish?
 Would you like to postpone.
 I don't know if you would like to.
 Remind in contract till the meeting.
 We have allowed to conduct any sort of business like this over.
 Does it have to, it has to be a posted meeting.
 We can't post things publicly by email.
 No.
 So it has to be.
 Okay.
 I just would say that it sounds like the packet is posted within the 24 hours.
 I mean, if you set another special meeting at this meeting,
 then it only has a 24 hour post requirement.
 So you said the process was what you were interested in.
 So if you wanted to do another special meeting to finish this,
 you could set it up now.
 Yeah, I don't, I guess I don't really just to speak frankly.
 I don't really want to drag this out.
 However, it is really, again, and I, I read it this to my page a couple,
 a couple of weeks ago.
 It's really challenging to get information on such short notice.
 Just, I work a full time job.
 My house is under plant moving and mold and it's like, when do you have time?
 Within 24 hours to read something as important as a contract.
 So whenever possible, I would love to have more notice.
 And I understand this as a time constraint environment.
 So I, I hear you and we continue to get information very late.
 And I just want to reiterate that again,
 that as much as we can get packets out before mandatory deadlines,
 it's so appreciated.
 It doesn't have a special meeting, unfortunately,
 when we're having to deal with getting something from him on very short notice.
 This is a very different situation based on, you know,
 feeling like it would be really good to know we have an interim administrator soon.
 Just for the overlap.
 This is a continuity.
 I understand my issue is that we continue to get information at last minute.
 And it's challenging.
 Well, you're not.
 Do you think you're, well, I'm not going to go there.
 This is all, this is the best we could do because we had to go.
 He didn't know he should send us something till we knew we had a special meeting.
 So can ask somebody to do something till they know that there's a reason that they would do it.
 So in this circumstance, there was no way to get it sooner.
 So it was, I apologize for that, but when you have a special meeting,
 it's really tough to get that done.
 So with that in mind, are there, what, what would you all like to do?
 Are you feeling like?
 I think this is an important issue that we should vote on accepting the contract.
 Mr. Sund are not going to the motion.
 We have a motion to see how it goes.
 I believe that we accept.
 That it's a consultant.
 We enter consulting agreement.
 We're never administrator with Mr. Sund.
 And we have a second.
 I have never hired someone was in a 24 hour time period and deeply uncomfortable.
 Well, because I asked for references to be checked, it's actually nothing against him.
 He seems like a Greek candidate.
 I love how Paul was when he answered all the questions.
 His resume seems super applicable.
 A formal process of reference check is a normal way to go.
 Even when there is like no other option because it's part of doing our diligence.
 I understand that.
 I would like to count on the motion.
 Wait a minute.
 Hang on.
 Do you need a second?
 I don't know.
 There's been enough discussion that it dies for a lack of a second.
 But I don't know if it is their second.
 Does there have to be a second before you can move to a new motion that has or lack thereof.
 So I can't.
 Does this motion die for a lack of a second?
 Yes.
 Yes.
 That motion is good.
 Okay.
 So I wanted to see very clear.
 This is not a judgment on the person in front of us.
 This is my really trying to stick to our events about process so we can have documented process for the decisions that we've made.
 And that we have done our full and complete due diligence.
 This is not a vote of confidence on the candidate in front of us at this time.
 I don't.
 He's answered the questions very well.
 This was my looks like a good fit from what I can tell in a 24 hour period.
 My challenge is that we haven't actually gone through the full process necessary that usually go through when you hire.
 A public employee and I just would like to see that completed.
 Before that was in the place.
 Now I understand that time of the essence and as much as administrator win can pass on to the interim is critical.
 However, I think cutting corners only sets us up for criticism in the future.
 So at this point in time, that's my stance on it.
 If there's a larger vote for it, you know, I would look for that.
 But what I would say is if you're not comfortable till you get more references, which the clerk is willing to do,
 she's going to follow up with other people and that she knows in those communities.
 But what we do need today is to set up another meeting.
 I really would not like to wait until the 9th to make.
 So this is the time to set up another special meeting and it can be.
 It can be as soon as possible because we already have all the information.
 There's nothing new to provide.
 The drive is the drive.
 So if you will all want to entertain another special meeting.
 That can be and what you said better is it can be.
 Within 24 hours.
 Yeah, it's a special meeting is set at a meeting.
 Then it's only got to have 24 hours notice.
 Otherwise, the shorty never knows.
 But what you need is time to call other references.
 So you need time to do that, which is not going to happen today.
 No, no, no.
 Right.
 So, so that's why I want to.
 And I absolutely see what you're saying.
 But I just want to make sure that did die for the life of the second before we need thought.
 So I exactly see what you're saying.
 So why don't we.
 Put together a night or day or any time.
 I'm going to make a decision and Mr. son, I don't know if you would necessarily have to be there, but if you wanted to, if you were available, that would be great.
 But at this point, yeah, I mean, I feel very common. Thank you for your time and your answering of the questions has been stellar. So I appreciate the candidates time.
 Absolutely.
 I have a question in the next hearing. Can we also revise.
 Is that the contract or the proposed contract?
 Yes, I'd say at this point, well, actually you could talk right now about whether you wanted to make some motions to change it, because I'm certainly not going to change it between now and the next meeting.
 None of us will internally it's really up to you all.
 I had some suggestions that can be voted on, you know, because the better the contract at the next meeting, because I'm looking at it for better.
 So they can make some changes in contract. They just don't have to adopt it tonight. Right.
 Yeah, I mean, for one, I wonder if we needed to find cost cap for the housing. I know we've said we'll split 50%, but it doesn't define what that limit would be.
 Yeah, I, I, does anybody have any good.
 It's really, it's really hard to have a cap on that. Unfortunately, I just think we can be as diligent and get the word out as quickly as possible that we have an administrator who wants to live somewhere full time for a few months.
 So, I don't know what we did. So, Emily, I mean, Trustee Foster, I see what you're saying. I just don't want to do about it, but certainly open the suggestions.
 Yeah, you know, I don't think it needs to be like exceptionally prohibitive, but if the decision ultimately lies with the administrator on their choice. I think that it's would be wise to have some sort of restriction on our end.
 Just an observation.
 And let me break. In this case, are you how are you feeling about a recommendation from those of us who read it here on a place?
 I guess I don't understand exactly the process you're outlining.
 I don't really know. This is we've not been here that I'm aware of. So we're kind of in a new territory.
 Can we ask some relatives, like what the average rental right is? Yeah, and I haven't done any of that, because I was waiting to see how things went.
 And I don't, I've not checked any rentals. And I think it's going to be difficult to get a rental list, just a few months. So, I don't know.
 But open to you guys, what your thoughts might be, and that could be something researched between now and the special meeting.
 I think we need time for that too. I should say, step would need time to get that.
 I asked Clark better. What is a reasonable timeframe for you for reference checks.
 Reference checks.
 Monday and a party Tuesday. It just really depends on how busy the person on the other end of the phone is. But I usually get answers back pretty quickly.
 I'm probably able to have any, no later, but probably not Tuesday.
 So perhaps giving you Wednesday would give enough time to ensure.
 Yeah, I don't, I don't know the answer, the topic of real letters. So that I don't know that. But yeah, I think I can have a really good.
 Well, maybe between now and when this has to be published, which is 24 hours for the meeting.
 Yeah, there would be some research done that just gives a little bit of a range. What is possible.
 Is that possible? I don't know.
 That's what I'm throwing out. If that might be possible to have staff do a little bit of a research with a local realgers.
 Or what might be available to you.
 Yeah, I mean, I would like to then go ahead and make a motion to call for a special meeting.
 Is that what this is called? Yeah, I think first.
 First of all, should you have other things in the contract that you wanted to talk about?
 I may have a few more questions, but.
 I don't know, maybe they might be better for the next meeting because I feel like I need a little more time to dig into this.
 Yeah, yeah, just noticing like there's no like with cause termination and without cause termination classifications.
 You know, just a few like kind of general protective things that are missing.
 That would be in a typical employment contract like that.
 Sure on something short term like this. I don't know if you have to ask whether you have calls versus cause.
 Because I think, right? Correct me if I'm wrong.
 I think open ended, isn't it about.
 Termination.
 This, this is different than employment situation because I'm a contractor for the town. That's what this contract proposes.
 This is not hiring an employee. And it does clearly say that.
 So then if the contract is at least set for new date for the contract, is that how we manage that? Or is it as a monthly? It's.
 It's month.
 It's month to month for up to six months, extensions up to three months in duration may be granted by mutual consent of both parties.
 Maybe terminated by either party with or without cause up to 30 days with written notice.
 So I think that's pretty standard or what something like this.
 I was going to say that's where we went through with our last interim administrator, she ended up staying past the six month mark and it was just extended at a meeting.
 You were the perfect actually, you know, voted on it. She accepted stuff. So.
 Okay, that's going to be my second instrument administrator, but it seems pretty standard to me.
 Yeah. So reading that clause.
 Trustee Foster, do you feel better about it? Are you still questioning the termination potential?
 I think, you know, it sounds like you guys have more experience with that than I do. So if you all think it's okay, then.
 Okay.
 Anything else?
 You know what we could do. I don't know how great it feels is short in that 30 days notice.
 If you've done that where you've had more like a 21 day notice.
 Three weeks as opposed to a month or something like that.
 Sorry.
 I don't know. It doesn't matter to me one way or the other. If if a situation is not working out or.
 You don't think I'm fulfilling the requirements of the contract, I just assume it ended that day.
 So, yeah, this is asking with a upon 30 days written notice, and I just wonder if that's a little too long of a notice for some, you know, for you being in such a short term position.
 Yeah, I, I don't, to me, this is a business relationship more than an employee relationship. So, I don't know that notice is really bad and important to this.
 Say, and any time, but we can check with our attorney on that.
 Question that to maybe truncated a little bit.
 Okay, I see foster those are good points anything else.
 I don't think so not at this time.
 Thank you.
 So now it's allowing enough time for a little research before another special meeting.
 Yeah, we're going towards Wednesday.
 Uh, yeah, if I may make a motion, I'd like to make a motion that we host a special meeting.
 Next Wednesday, which I believe is for five days from now.
 The day is the third thing to hear from staff.
 About formal reference tracks completed provided feedback.
 Again, I would love if written form.
 And at that time to finalize contract and decision on higher.
 What time after five PM.
 Second.
 Do you want to add value? I just, whatever time works for people after five.
 So, if it's the matter to me, let's say at five 30, okay.
 All right, and you've got the motion.
 Yes.
 Okay.
 Do it a second.
 Oh, thank you. Okay. All in favor.
 Okay. All right.
 See you on Wednesday at five 30.
 So much.
 Oh, sorry, I'm sorry.
 Oh, great. Thank you so much. So, can you see us again on Wednesday at five?
 30 30.
 That's not this way.
 I like this. I think they don't work.
 Okay, great. Thank you.
 Thank you for your time, Greg.
 Thank you.
